Notice of Special Interest (NOSI): Administrative Supplements to Support Extramural Collaborators for Notified Applicants for the Bench-to-Bedside and Back Program (BtB) (Clinical Trial Optional)
https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/notice-files/NOT-OD-22-185.html
july 28, 2022pa-20-272 - administrative supplements to existing nih grants and cooperative agreements (parent admin supp clinical trial optional)office of the director, national institutes of health (od)aiming to improve human health, the nih bench-to-bedside and back program (btb) program (https://ocr.od.nih.gov/btb/btb_program.html) supports innovative small/pilot research projects designed to translate basic scientific findings into therapeutic interventions for patients and to increase understanding of important clinical observations of disease processes. it promotes robust multi-directional collaborations among laboratory ("bench") and patient-focused ("bedside") investigators. through the nih btb program, this funding opportunity will invite two-year administrative supplement applications for collaborations between the nih intramural research investigators, who conduct translational and clinical research and extramural nih recipients. every project must include an nih intramural investigator who is responsible for submitting the btb letter of intent (loi) and application online (proposal central; pc; https://proposalcentral.com/).this nosi is intended for the extramural collaborators of awarded bench to bedside (btb) proposals. selected applicants will be notified by the btb program officer to apply for an administrative supplement in response to this nosi. projects may have single or multiple principal investigator(s). extramural investigators may initiate or lead projects, though the extramural investigator must still have an intramural collaborator. extramural investigators who need assistance identifying intramural partners may consult:background and goalsthe nih btb program was originally established in 1999 to integrate the work of basic and clinical intramural scientists and expanded in 2006 to partnerships between intramural and extramural programs. (intramural science refers to research that takes place on an nih campus under the auspices of federal employees, while extramural research is conducted by investigators and institutions outside of nih.) funded projects may receive up to $150,000 in direct costs per year for up to two years (total for the entire project, both intramural and extramural investigators). for projects involving only intramural investigators, they will need to apply through the proposal central system- not to this administrative supplement nosi.intramural investigators within all nih institutes/centers are eligible to serve as project leaders on proposals. for awards involving extramural partners, pis can budget a portion of their funds to their extramural collaborator(s), which will be directed as an administrative supplement to an existing grant. in order to ensure uninterrupted funding, the project and budget periods of the supplement request must be within the currently approved project period for the existing parent award up to two years. for additional information please contact the btb contact listed at the end of this notice. for additional information and requirements please visit https://ocr.od.nih.gov/btb/specific_information.html.research objectivesbeginning in 1999 bench to bedside projects were originally funded by clinical center carryover funds. support expanded in 2003 with funding from both the office of rare disease research (ordr) and the office of aids research (oar). through the nih btb program awards will be available in topics relevant to the research interests and priorities of funding nih institutes/centers/offices (icos). if additional award categories are added prior to the loi due date, these will be highlighted on the btb program website https://ocr.od.nih.gov/btb/btb_program.html. all applications are automatically considered for “general category” funding through the office of clinical research’s btb funds in addition to any funding consideration by the donor offices listed below:for details of each partner’s priorities and mission please visit https://ocr.od.nih.gov/btb/funding_sources.htmleligibility and eligible individualsbudget and period of support:applicants may request up to a maximum of $150,000/year in direct costs (for intramural and extramural investigators) for up to two years. the extramural investigator(s) cannot receive all project funds, at least half of the funds must be directed to the intramural investigator(s).intramural funds: intramural funds will be provided to intramural investigators via intra-agency agreements. at least one intramural investigator on the project must have responsibility for scientific and budgetary oversight (e.g., the investigator must have a budget/assigned can and resources).extramural funds: funds to extramural investigators will be provided as an administrative supplement to an eligible nih grant. to receive funds, it is mandatory that the parent grant is aligned closely with the subject area of the proposal so the project can be supported within the aims and objectives of the parent grant. to ensure alignment with the parent grant, a written justification must be included in the budget section of the btb application describing the scientific relationship. incomplete grant information in the full proposal (e.g., invalid project period dates or lack of scientific alignment) will eliminate the proposal from funding consideration. additional consideration:*note: due to nih policy, there are no exceptions to the above requirements for receipt of extramural funds. applications with ineligible extramural components may be eliminated from consideration or may have their funding reduced if awarded. please contact the bench-to-bedside team (benchtobedside@cc.nih.gov) with any eligibility questions.application and submission information:applications for this initiative must be submitted using the following opportunity or its subsequent reissued equivalent.page limitationsthe research strategy of the administrative supplement application must not exceed five (5) pages and must summarize the activities of the parent grant that encompass those proposed in the supplemental request and describe how those activities are proposed for augmentation and/or enhancement in the supplemental request by:application due dateapplications must be received by 5 pm local time of the submitting institution on the following:march 6, 2023.applicants are encouraged to apply early to allow adequate time to make any corrections by the due date to errors found in the application during the submission process.please direct all inquiries to:hana smith, m.sc. office of clinical research, nih telephone: 301-402-6313. e-mail: benchtobedside@cc.nih.govweekly toc for this announcement nih funding opportunities and noticesnote: for help accessing pdf, rtf, ms word, excel, powerpoint, audio or video files, see help downloading files.