Notice of Special Interest (NOSI): Primary Caregiver Technical Assistance Supplements (PCTAS) (Admin Supp Clinical Trial Optional)
https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/notice-files/NOT-AI-21-074.html
september 24, 2021pa-20-272 - administrative supplements to existing nih grants and cooperative agreements (parent admin supp clinical trial optional)national institute of allergy and infectious diseases (niaid)this program will help to support eligible postdoctoral scientists maintain high productivity in an niaid-funded laboratory while engaging in primary caregiver responsibilities. niaid recognizes that postdoctoral scientists with young children or ailing relatives are sometimes unable to focus completely on their research activities because of primary caregiver responsibilities. as a result, these circumstances may delay an individual’s transition to an independent career or reduce their scientific productivity at critical periods. principal investigators may request additional funds to hire a mid-to-senior level technician at a full-time or part-time level of effort to fill in for the postdoctoral scientist when he/she is required to be away from the lab to fulfill their caregiver responsibilities. administrative supplements must support work within the scope of the original project.budgetthe administrative supplement budget is limited to a maximum of 2 years. the application budget cannot exceed a maximum direct cost of $50,000/year for the technician's salary. in addition to the direct costs, applicable f&a (indirect) costs may also be requested.additional information on eligibilityat the time of supplement application the pd(s)/pi(s) must have at least 2 years of niaid support remaining on the parent award to be eligible for funding.eligible candidates for the supplement program: a parent grant may support only one technician on a supplement. postdoctoral fellows must have completed work for at least one full year at a niaid-funded laboratory and be primary caregivers for a child or ailing relative. technicians must be named in the application. technicians do not need u.s. citizenship or permanent resident status (temporary work and student visas are acceptable).subproject pd(s)/pi(s) on multi-component research grants (e.g., p01, p50, u54) must request supplements to their project through the overall pd(s)/pi(s) of the grant.application and submission informationapplications for this initiative must be submitted using the following opportunity or its subsequent reissued equivalent.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide and pa-20-272 must be followed, with the following additional instructions:administrative evaluation processadministrative supplements do not receive peer review. instead, the administrative criteria described below will be considered in the administrative evaluation process. the staff of the nih awarding component will evaluate requests for a supplement to determine its overall merit. support will be based on the most meritorious applications submitted for consideration and availability of funds.criterianih staff will consider the ability of the proposed supplement activities to increase or preserve the parent award’s overall impact within the original scope of award. only the administrative review criteria described below will be considered in the review process:applications nonresponsive to terms of this nosi will be not be considered for the nosi initiative.please direct all inquiries to the contacts in section vii of the listed funding opportunity announcements with the following additions/substitutions:scientific/research contact(s)raushanah newman national institute of allergy and infectious diseases (niaid) telephone: 240-669-2925 email: newmanrau@niaid.nih.govfinancial/grants management contact(s)samuel ashe national institute of allergy and infectious diseases (niaid) telephone: (301) 435-4799 email: samuel.ashe@nih.govweekly toc for this announcement nih funding opportunities and noticesnote: for help accessing pdf, rtf, ms word, excel, powerpoint, audio or video files, see help downloading files.