Notice of Special Interest (NOSI): Administrative Supplements for R25 Data Science Training for Infectious and Immune-mediated Disease Research
https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/notice-files/NOT-AI-23-010.html
november 30, 2022pa-20-272 - administrative supplements to existing nih grants and cooperative agreements (parent admin supp clinical trial optional)national institute of allergy and infectious diseases (niaid) eunice kennedy shriver national institute of child health and human development (nichd) national institute of mental health (nimh) national cancer institute (nci) all applications to this funding opportunity announcement should fall within the mission of the institutes/centers. the following nih offices may co-fund applications assigned to those institutes/centers. office of data science strategy (odss) office of research on women’s health (orwh) - new participating organization as of 02/16/2023 for due dates on/after 02/13/2024eunice kennedy shriver national institute of child health and human development (nichd)national institute of mental health (nimh)national cancer institute (nci)all applications to this funding opportunity announcement should fall within the mission of the institutes/centers. the following nih offices may co-fund applications assigned to those institutes/centers.office of data science strategy (odss)the purpose of this notice of special interest (nosi) is to highlight the interest of participating nih institutes and centers (ics) to enhance existing nih research education (r25) awards with data science training relevant to infectious- and immune-mediated disease research. data science is a rapidly evolving field in infectious- and immune-mediated diseases. some of the most impactful data science takes place in transdisciplinary collaborations between biomedical, behavioral, clinical, and computational scientists. the supplemental work supported by this nosi will enable existing r25 training programs to offer data science mentoring and training to engage a broader community in data science by improving training programs and transdisciplinary collaboration between biomedical, behavioral, clinical, and computational scientists for research on infectious- and immune-mediated diseases, consistent with the nih strategic plan for data science.scope of interestimpactful use of data science methods and technologies in infectious- and immune-mediated disease research depends on skills among biomedical, behavioral, and clinical researchers to work effectively with scientists from computational scientific disciplines. such transdisciplinary skills include strong communication skills and sufficient methodological and domain knowledge to establish meaningful collaborations. existing biomedical, behavioral, and clinical training programs may not include program elements that prepare trainees for strong collaborative research with computational sciences (e.g., computer science, mathematics, engineering, and physics).the goal of the supplementary funding is to add data science training components that enable stronger transdisciplinary collaboration between biomedical, behavioral, clinical, and computational scientists. examples of data science topics for r25 training programs include, but are not limited to: data curation, metadata creation, data management and sharing approaches, understanding and applying, findable, accessible, interoperable, reusable (fair) guiding principles, computational analytical methods, such as artificial intelligence/machine learning, systems modeling, and automated reasoning.examples of program elements that could be added to existing r25 training programs include, but are not limited to:this nosi is intended to support projects that are relevant to infectious- and immune-mediated disease research and reach a significant number of trainees in a relevant subdomain. supplemental training modules should bring relevant data science expertise and computational components to the existing r25 training and mentorship program.eligibilityapplication and submission informationapplications for this initiative must be submitted using the following opportunity or its subsequent reissued equivalent.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide and pa-20-272 must be followed, with the following additions:budgetplease direct all inquiries to:office of data science and emerging technologies national institute of allergy and infectious diseases (niaid) telephone: 301-761-7328 email: datascience-foa@niaid.nih.govjuli klemm, ph.d. national cancer institute (nci) telephone: 202-853-7889 email: klemmj@mail.nih.govrebecca rosen, ph.d. eunice kennedy shriver national institute of child health and human development (nichd) telephone: 301-827-4602 email: rebecca.rosen@nih.govlori a. j. scott-sheldon, ph.d. national institute of mental health (nimh) telephone: 301-792-2309 email: lori.scott-sheldon@nih.govbryan kim, ph.d. office of data science strategy (odss) telephone: 301-827-1732 email: bryan.kim@nih.govorwh scientific contact: xenia tigno, ph.d., m.s. (epi) office of research on women’s health (orwh) telephone: 301-480-1145 email: xenia.tigno@nih.govweekly toc for this announcement nih funding opportunities and noticesnote: for help accessing pdf, rtf, ms word, excel, powerpoint, audio or video files, see help downloading files.