Notice of Special Interest (NOSI): Assessment of Suicide Thoughts and Behaviors among Children and Preteens
https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/notice-files/NOT-MH-22-086.html
february 9, 2022pa-21-235 - nimh exploratory/developmental research grant (r21 clinical trial not allowed)national institute of mental health (nimh) national institute on drug abuse (nida)national institute on drug abuse (nida)backgroundas of 2019, suicide was the fifth leading cause of death for children ages 5-12. while still relatively rare, the death of a child by suicide is a devastating event and can have long-lasting effects on families, schools, medical providers, and communities. in addition, suicide rates for children have been increasing over time, especially for some subgroups such as black youth. despite these concerning trends, little is known about how to assess the presence and severity of stb among younger children. in the fy2022 house appropriations report (h. rept. 117-96), congress encouraged nimh to continue to prioritize suicide research in fiscal year 2022. in 2021 nimh convened a four-part virtual research roundtable series, “risk, resilience, & trajectories in preteen suicide.” three topical roundtables culminated in a synthesis meeting and brought together a diverse group of expert panelists to assess the state of the science and short- and longer-term research priorities related to child/preteen suicide risk and risk trajectories. presentations and discussions among round table participants highlighted the importance of using developmentally and culturally sensitive suicide risk assessment approaches and suggested that the current measures and methods used to assess stb in adolescents and adults need to be reconsidered and adapted for this younger population.research objectives the purpose of this notice of special interest (nosi) is to encourage advance research that addresses outstanding questions related to the developmentally and culturally appropriate characterization and assessment of stb in children/preteens. for purposes of this nosi, children/preteens are defined as youth 12 years old and younger. nimh encourages applications that consider issues relevant to the assessment of diverse youth, including the acceptability and cultural relevance of the strategies for assessment among youth from minoritized backgrounds and/or sexual and gender minority youth.given the importance of considering youths’ developmental status (e.g., cognitive functioning as it relates to their understanding of death and participation in the assessment) and the importance of assessing youths’ internal states, nimh encourages applications that bring together teams with strong expertise in developmental science and projects that directly assess respondents’ comprehension of interview/survey items and the developmental appropriateness of potential assessment approaches. investigator teams are also expected to include expertise in suicide risk assessment and conceptualization and expertise in measure development and psychometrics, as appropriate. applicants may choose to utilize mixed method approaches (e.g., cognitive interviewing approaches to assess the young respondents’ comprehension of proposed questionnaire/interview items). in these instances, applicants should specify how the proposed methods are consistent with established standards of rigor for quantitative and qualitative data collection and analysis.examples of responsive applications include, but are not limited to projects that:applications should clearly address the following:non-responsive applicationsthe following types of studies will be considered non-responsive and will not be reviewed:application and submission informationthis notice applies to due dates on or after june 16, 2022 and subsequent receipt dates through may 8, 2024.submit applications for this initiative using one of the following funding opportunity announcements (foas) or any reissues of these announcement through the expiration date of this notice.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide and the funding opportunity announcement used for submission must be followed, with the following additions:applications nonresponsive to terms of this nosi will not be considered for the nosi initiative.scientific/research contact(s)national institute of mental health eric r. murphy, phd telephone: 301-443-9230 email: eric.murphy@nih.govnational institute on drug abuse (nida) janet kuramoto-crawford, phd telephone: 301-443-8856 email: janet.kuramoto-crawford@nih.govweekly toc for this announcement nih funding opportunities and noticesnote: for help accessing pdf, rtf, ms word, excel, powerpoint, audio or video files, see help downloading files.