Notice of Special Interest: Public Policy Effects on Alcohol-, Cannabis-, Tobacco-, and Other Drug-Related Behaviors and Outcomes
https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/notice-files/NOT-AA-21-028.html
may 5, 2021pa-20-185 - nih research project grant (parent r01 clinical trial not allowed)pa-20-183 - research project grant (parent r01 clinical trial required)pa-20-200 - nih small research grant program (parent r03 clinical trial not allowed)pa-20-195 - nih exploratory/developmental research grant program (parent r21 clinical trial not allowed)pa-20-194 - nih exploratory/developmental research grant program (parent r21 clinical trial required)national institute on alcohol abuse and alcoholism (niaaa) national institute on drug abuse (nida) national cancer institute (nci)national institute on drug abuse (nida)national cancer institute (nci)this announcement encourages applications to conduct research on the effects of public policies on health-related behaviors and outcomes associated with alcohol, cannabis, tobacco, prescription drugs, and other substances. the purpose of the notice is to advance understanding of how public policy may serve as a tool for improving public health and welfare through its effects on behaviors and outcomes pertaining to alcohol and other drugs. this notice is intended to support innovative research to examine policy effects that have the potential to lead to meaningful changes in public health. research projects that may be supported include, but are not necessarily limited to: causal analyses of the effects of one or multiple public policies; evaluations of the effectiveness of specific public policies as tools for improving public health through their effects on alcohol-, cannabis-, tobacco-, and other substance-related behaviors and outcomes; studies of disparities in policy effects and the role of policy in exacerbating or potentially reducing health disparities; and research to advance methods and measurement used in studying relationships between public policies and alcohol-, cannabis-, tobacco-, and other substance-related behaviors and outcomes.backgroundconsumption of alcohol, cannabis, tobacco, and other drugs has important and diverse effects on a wide range of health, social, and economic behaviors and outcomes. in the united states, public policies at all levels of government address a wide range of behaviors associated with alcohol, cannabis, tobacco, illicit drugs, and prescription medications. findings from policy studies to date suggest that policy tools have the potential to generate improvements in public health on a scale unmatched by other approaches to alleviating the adverse consequences of alcohol, tobacco and other substance use. additional research is needed to identify and quantify the effects and effectiveness of public policies on public health and specific health-related behaviors and health outcomes for individuals, underrepresented populations and other relevant subgroups, and the general population.public policies have broad consequences for behaviors and health outcomes, but these effects typically occur over time and in the context of other economic, social, and cultural changes. discerning the causal influence of any specific policy or group of policies on specific health outcomes of interest in the presence of numerous confounding factors is one of the main challenges of policy research, in part because randomized controlled experiments are infeasible for most policy interventions. strong research designs and valid measurement of both the behaviors and health outcomes of interest and the policy interventions that may affect them, as well as relevant mediating and moderating factors, are needed to support meaningful conclusions regarding causal relationships.policy effects often vary across population groups defined by race, ethnicity, sex, age, socioeconomic status, gender identity, or other relevant characteristics. they may also vary in geographic or temporal dimensions. understanding the nature and determinants of disparities and other aspects of heterogeneity in policy effects is an important area for study.policies may generate unintended effects that reinforce, dilute, or are unrelated to the intended effects. behaviors and outcomes associated with alcohol, cannabis, tobacco, and other substances may also be influenced by policies whose primary intended effects are in other areas. examples include traffic safety laws, child labor laws, child welfare policies, housing and education programs, import/export regulations, taxation policies, and zoning regulations. identifying unintended policy effects on substance-related behaviors and outcomes can inform decision-making about those policies and about related needs for enforcement and for prevention and treatment services.differences in how policies are implemented can influence the extent to which they achieve desired (or undesired) effects. key aspects of implementation include the dissemination of public information pertaining to policy changes, the extent of enforcement efforts and publicity about enforcement, and the nature and severity of penalties associated with violations. implementation and enforcement efforts can also generate unintended effects that differ from those associated with the policy itself. studies that incorporate measures of enforcement or other aspects of implementation often confront significant challenges in terms of measurement and data availability.a variety of research designs may be appropriate in assessing the effects of public policies on health-related behaviors and outcomes. well-designed approaches will be based on strong theoretical foundations and employ appropriate strategies to discern the causal influences of the policy or policies in question from effects that may be attributable to other, possibly unobserved factors. natural experiments and quasi-experimental designs are valuable approaches for understanding policy effects. systems science methodologies such as agent-based, microsimulation, network, or system dynamics modeling can complement more traditional analytic approaches to examine simultaneous impacts on multiple outcomes and complexities such as heterogeneous effects, bidirectional relationships (feedback loops), dynamic behavior, non-linear effects, and time-delayed effects.the reliability and validity of policy data used in studies of policy effects or effectiveness is integral to the overall quality of the research. researchers should be alert to policy provisions beyond the simple presence or absence of a policy addressing a particular issue. similarly, policy research should incorporate the dates on which policies became or ceased to be effective. sources of reliable policy information on aspects of alcohol and drug policy include the alcohol policy information system (apis; http://alcoholpolicy.niaaa.nih.gov) and the prescription drug abuse policy system (pdaps; http://pdaps.org). other sources of policy information on a range of topics are also available, including from a wide range of government, commercial, and advocacy organizations; the quality of such data should always be scrutinized.scope/research objectivesstudies that would be responsive to this notice include but are not limited to:research shows that diverse teams working together outperform homogenous teams. scientists and trainees from diverse backgrounds and with different life experiences bring different perspectives, creativity, and individual enterprise to address complex scientific problems. diverse teams of scientists will lead the way to develop more innovative inclusive research that will more broadly enhance public health. fostering diversity by addressing underrepresentation in the scientific research workforce is a key component of the nih strategy to identify, develop, support, and maintain the quality of our scientific workforce. it is expected that the research program will include a diverse group of scientists, including individuals from underrepresented backgrounds as per not od 20-031 (notice of nih's interest in diversity). niaaa, nci, and nida are especially interested in enhancing representation from racial, ethnic and gender minorities and early-stage investigators. any individuals referenced in not od 20-031 (notice of nih's interest in diversity) are expected to serve as key contributors to the biomedical research along with investigators who have a strong track record of funding. in addition, research teams should include investigators from various disciplines, departments, and specialties.application and submission informationthis notice applies to due dates on or after june 5, 2021 and subsequent receipt dates through september 8, 2024.submit applications for this initiative using one of the following funding opportunity announcements (foas) or any reissues of these announcement through the expiration date of this notice.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide and the funding opportunity announcement used for submission must be followed, with the following additions:applications nonresponsive to terms of this nosi will not be considered for the nosi initiative.scientific/research contact(s)gregory bloss, m.a., m.p.p. national institute on alcohol abuse and alcoholism (niaaa) email:gregory.bloss@nih.govcarolyn reyes-guzman, phd, mph national cancer institute (nci) email: carolyn.reyes-guzman@nih.govheather l. kimmel, ph.d. national institute on drug abuse (nida) email: heather.kimmel@nih.govpeer review contact(s)examine your era commons account for review assignment and contact information (information appears two weeks after the submission due date).financial/grants management contact(s)judy fox national institute on alcohol abuse and alcoholism (niaaa) telephone: 301-443-4704 email: jfox@mail.nih.govweekly toc for this announcement nih funding opportunities and noticesnote: for help accessing pdf, rtf, ms word, excel, powerpoint, audio or video files, see help downloading files.