Notice of Special Interest (NOSI): Administrative Supplements to Prepare Data Assets for Infectious and Immune-mediated Diseases for Inclusion into the NIAID Data Ecosystem
https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/notice-files/NOT-AI-23-009.html
november 25, 2022pa-20-272 - administrative supplements to existing nih grants and cooperative agreements (parent admin supp clinical trial optional)national institute of allergy and infectious diseases (niaid) eunice kennedy shriver national institute of child health and human development (nichd) national institute of general medical sciences (nigms) national cancer institute (nci) all applications to this funding opportunity announcement should fall within the mission of the institutes/centers. the following nih offices may co-fund applications assigned to those institutes/centers. office of data science strategy (odss)eunice kennedy shriver national institute of child health and human development (nichd)national institute of general medical sciences (nigms)national cancer institute (nci)all applications to this funding opportunity announcement should fall within the mission of the institutes/centers. the following nih offices may co-fund applications assigned to those institutes/centers.office of data science strategy (odss)the purpose of this notice of special interest (nosi) is to highlight interest in supporting supplemental funding applications for award recipients currently funded by participating nih institutes and centers to prepare data assets relevant for infectious- and immune-mediated disease research for inclusion in the niaid data ecosystem. research may include studies that strive to generate a better understanding of mechanisms for the prevention, diagnosis, and treatment of infectious- and immune mediated diseases. relevant data must already have been collected and applicants must demonstrate that the data assets have value to other researchers for studies of infectious- and immune-mediated disease. the supplemental funding will enable applicants to prepare their data assets for meeting technical specifications for inclusion in the niaid data ecosystem. the proposed supplemental activities must be within the scope of the approved aims of the parent award.scope of interestthe niaid data ecosystem aims to improve the discovery and (re-)use of data for research on infectious- and immune-mediated disease research. development of the niaid data ecosystem is ongoing and the public launch is expected in the next year. the niaid data ecosystem comprises: (1) a data discovery portal that indexes structured metadata from a broad range of data repositories and that enables researchers to search and find data relevant to their research; and (2) a cloud-based workspace that enables researchers to analyze data with publicly available software applications or with their own applications.the niaid data ecosystem is currently indexing metadata for data assets hosted by domain and general-purpose repositories to enable discovery of data assets through the ecosystem data discovery portal. many data assets that could be valuable for infectious- and immune-mediated diseases are not yet in such repositories or have no structured, high-quality metadata. through this nosi, niaid and other participating ics seek applications for administrative supplements that will provide award recipients with the resources to prepare existing data assets of high value for infectious- and immune-mediated disease research for inclusion in the niaid data ecosystem. data assets can be data repositories, databases, knowledge bases, datasets, or other digital objects collected by individual researchers or research groups. examples of the types of datasets appropriate for the niaid data ecosystem include, but are not limited to, genomic, proteomic, laboratory assay, clinical, and epidemiological data related to pathogens and pathogen exposures, human host immune response, or similar datasets. data assets created primarily for research outside the infectious- and immune-mediated disease domain, such as cancer immunology, could be in scope for this supplement if the applicants can demonstrate the value of the data for research on infectious- and immune-mediated diseases, e.g., to gain mechanistic insight or to develop new diagnostics, therapeutics, or vaccines.examples of projects that might be candidates for supplement activities include, but are not limited to, data repositories, data management and coordination centers, and projects that create unique datasets. depending on their situation, applicants could propose to make their repository compatible with ecosystem specifications, as described below, to create metadata that can be included in the ecosystem data discovery portal, to deposit their dataset in a repository and create high-quality metadata, or similar work. also see examples of eligible activities below.to be included into the niaid data ecosystem, data assets need to meet certain technical requirements. a data asset needs to be deposited in a professionally managed repository or at least managed by a mature data management or coordination center, see nih not-od-21-016 about selecting a repository, and office of science and technology policy guidance on desirable characteristics of data repositories for federally funded research. the niaid data ecosystem is not a repository, and data deposition in a repository or data management center is required to ensure sustained availability of the data to the user community for at least the foreseeable future. data assets should also follow the technical specifications of the fair guiding principles for scientific data management and stewardship. data assets need to have high-quality, complete, structured metadata that is represented in a format compliant with schema.org or with an alternative highly used metadata standard that can be mapped to schema.org. an example of a metadata format and schema is the niaid data ecosystem specifications listed by the data discovery engine. the metadata will need to be accessible to the niaid data ecosystem via a well-documented application programming interface (api) or fhir server that follows global standards. for proposed integration of data assets with the niaid data ecosystem workspace, data assets should be accessible to the niaid data ecosystem via an api that follows the global alliance for genomics and health (ga4gh) data repository service (drs) specifications. if authentication or authorization is required for data or metadata assets, the identity provider or service for the data asset should allow for integration with services that support multiple identity providers, such as the nih researcher auth service (ras)examples of activities to prepare data assets for inclusion in the niaid data ecosystem include, but are not limited to:this notice encourages applications to prepare existing data assets for discovery and (re-)use by others through the niaid data ecosystem, leveraging the fair guiding principles as technical specification for how to prepare data assets.eligibilityapplication and submission informationapplications for this initiative must be submitted using the following opportunity or its subsequent reissued equivalent.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide and pa-20-272 must be followed, with the following additions:budgetresearch strategyletters of supportevaluationniaid plans to hold an informational webinar for this nosi around the middle of december 2022. details about the webinar will be posted on the niaid data science website. participation in the webinar is not required to submit an application in response to this nosi.please direct all inquiries to the contacts in section vii of the listed funding opportunity announcements with the following additions/substitutions:office of data science and emerging technologies national institute of allergy and infectious diseases (niaid) telephone: 301-761-7328 email: datascience-foa@niaid.nih.govjuli klemm, ph.d. national cancer institute (nci) telephone: 202-853-7889 email: klemmj@mail.nih.govrebecca rosen, ph.d. eunice kennedy shriver national institute of child health and human development (nichd) telephone: 301-827-4602 email: rebecca.rosen@nih.govzhongzhen nie, ph.d. national institute of general medical sciences (nigms) telephone: 301-496-1433 email: zhongzhen.nie@nih.govlaura biven, ph.d. office of data science strategy (odss) telephone: 301-480-4021 email: laura.biven@nih.govishwar chandramouliswaran office of data science strategy (odss) telephone: 301-761-7822 email: ishwar.chandramouliswaran@nih.govweekly toc for this announcement nih funding opportunities and noticesnote: for help accessing pdf, rtf, ms word, excel, powerpoint, audio or video files, see help downloading files.