Notice of Special Interest: Health Disparities and Alzheimer's Disease
https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/notice-files/NOT-AG-21-033.html
december 28, 2021par-22-093, research on current topics in alzheimer's disease and its related dementias (r01 clinical trial optional)par-22-094, research on current topics in alzheimer's disease and its related dementias (r21 clinical trial optional)national institute on aging (nia) all applications to this funding opportunity announcement should fall within the mission of the institutes/centers. the following nih offices may co-fund applications assigned to those institutes/centers. office of research on women's health (orwh)all applications to this funding opportunity announcement should fall within the mission of the institutes/centers. the following nih offices may co-fund applications assigned to those institutes/centers.office of research on women's health (orwh)backgroundthe need to diversify alzheimer’s disease (ad) and alzheimer’s disease-related dementias (adrd) research cohorts and improve methods and tools for conducting health disparities research related to ad/adrd has been emphasized by the national alzheimer’s project act; the alzheimer’s research summits (2012, 2015, and 2021); the national research summit on care, services, and supports for persons with dementia and their caregivers (2017 and 2020); and the alzheimer’s disease-related dementia summits (2013, 2016, and 2019). to achieve such diversity, projects are needed that will increase enrollment of underrepresented populations, expand the use of existing cohorts, and create robust estimates of ad/adrd in diverse populations. improvements are also needed in research tools, research methods, and design and recruitment practices. the national institute on aging (nia) is committed to diverse representation in all research studies, including clinical trials.research that assesses health disparities in aging and ad/adrd is of variable quality, and a limited number of studies focus on elucidating causal mechanisms. inconsistent results across studies, insufficient numbers of participants from medically underserved populations, and inadequately powered studies represent additional challenges to identifying and eliminating factors related to disparities. in addition, most studies recently used to estimate ad/adrd prevalence rely on cross-sectional rather than longitudinal measurement, when the latter more convincingly demonstrates cognitive and functional decline.there is a need to improve the rigor of scientific investigations of ad/adrd that consider health disparities. nia’s health disparities framework describes factors across multiple levels (i.e., environmental, sociocultural, behavioral, and biological) that impact health disparities. these factors operate through individual, interpersonal, community, and social processes and over the life course. race, ethnicity, socioeconomic status, and sex/gender may be multifactorial in their influence on ad/adrd and cognitive impairment and decline. to optimize inclusion of diverse populations, it is important that research projects address the nuances of cultural context across participants, including the various levels at which decision making occurs (e.g., patients, caregivers, clinicians, groups, healthcare systems and/or communities which mediate the goal of achieving health equity). studies incorporating geographic, neighborhood, education, environmental, biological, social, behavioral, lifestyle, and genetic factors need to be conducted with study populations that have robust demographic diversity. also, there is a need for studies to investigate determinants of population-level differences in ad/adrd.when cohorts are diverse, new mechanisms that link environmental, sociocultural, behavioral, and biological factors can be identified. health disparities populations, as defined by public law 106-525, minority health and health disparities research and education act of 2000, include the following populations:additional populations may include the following:objectivesthis notice of special interest (nosi) encourages applications that examine mediators and moderators of disparities in ad/adrd, using diverse cohorts of subjects. projects of interest include, but are not limited to, those addressing the following topics:application and submission informationthis notice applies to due dates on or after march 11, 2022 and subsequent receipt dates through november 13, 2024.submit applications for this initiative using one of the following funding opportunity announcements (foas) or any reissues of these announcement through the expiration date of this notice.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide and the funding opportunity announcement used for submission must be followed, with the following additions:applications nonresponsive to terms of this nosi will not be considered for the nosi initiative.damali martin, ph.d. national institute on aging (nia) division of neuroscience telephone: 301-402-8310 email: martinda@mail.nih.govfrank bandiera, ph.d. national institute on aging (nia) division of behavioral and social research telephone: 301-496-3136 email: frank.bandiera@nih.govweekly toc for this announcement nih funding opportunities and noticesnote: for help accessing pdf, rtf, ms word, excel, powerpoint, audio or video files, see help downloading files.