Notice of Special Interest (NOSI): Administrative Supplements for NCI Global Oncology Mentored Research
https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/notice-files/NOT-CA-23-038.html
january 23, 2023pa-20-272 - administrative supplements to existing nih grants and cooperative agreements (parent admin supp clinical trial optional)national cancer institute (nci)the purpose of this notice is to encourage currently funded nci extramural investigators to apply for administrative supplements to support mentored cancer research career development of early-stage low- and middle-income country (lmic) investigators (eslis). the overarching goal of this supplement opportunity is to strengthen the capacity of lmic investigators to conduct high-quality research in their lmic home institutions to generate context-appropriate evidence to address specific cancer control priorities in lmics.cancer poses an increasing health and economic burden globally, but the impact is especially profound in lmics where more than 65% of all cancer deaths occur. cancer incidence and mortality are projected to increase over the next several decades, accelerating most rapidly in lmics where populations are rapidly transitioning and the capacity for cancer control is limited. there is an urgent need to accelerate cancer research in lmics to generate context-specific evidence to better inform local cancer control efforts. lmic investigators, working in their lmic home institutions, are well positioned to lead innovative and impactful research as they best understand the local socio-cultural contexts, needs, and opportunities for cancer research. global research collaborations, including those in lmics, are increasingly critical to answer complex cancer research questions. therefore, concerted and deliberate efforts to strengthen the research capabilities of local lmic investigators will maximize research impact and foster equity in global research collaborations in lmics.research mentoring and career developmentthe nci global oncology mentored research supplements provide additional funds to established nci investigators who hold active nci grants or cooperative agreements to recruit and mentor eslis towards establishing independent cancer research careers at their lmic home institutions. these administrative supplements will support protected time for intensive, mentored research and career development experiences for eslis. the experiences must serve as a means of assisting the eslis to develop into independent and productive cancer researchers in basic, clinical, translational or population sciences.the goal of this initiative is to increase opportunities for eslis to access high-quality mentorship to foster their readiness for independent cancer research careers. nci extramural investigator(s) who wish to mentor an esli must be committed to direct supervision and mentoring of the esli's research project and career development. the research and career mentoring supported under this nosi is expected to equip eslis with:to further enrich the esli's experience, the sponsoring institution (the institution holding the parent award) is encouraged to provide structured peer-mentoring opportunities for the esli to engage with other early career investigators on the nci parent award. peer mentoring offers a platform to further strengthen and foster long-term relationships that might potentially lead to new equitable and impactful collaborations.supplemental research projectsto accomplish the stated objectives, this award requires supported eslis to conduct well-defined supplemental research projects at their lmic home institutions under the supervision and mentorship of one or more mentors from the nci parent award. the proposed supplemental research project is anticipated to generate data and/or evidence towards addressing a locally relevant cancer problem. to support this objective, the primary mentor is expected to work with the esli to design a contextualized research project and mentoring plan. the award will support the primary mentor to travel to the esli’s lmic home institution to understand the local research needs, culture and environment. it is expected that the supplemental research project, including data analysis and collection,will be based at the esli’s lmic home institution. the esli may travel to the sponsoring institution to learn and/or develop specific skills/techniques, but the esli’s stay at the sponsoring institution should be limited and efforts made to ensure that the skills/techniques acquired at the sponsoring institution are relevant and applicable to esli’s own local research contexts/settings.appropriate topics for supplemental research projects supported under this opportunity may span the entire breadth of the nci supported research portfolio. however, the proposed supplemental research project must be within (contribute to, expand or extend) the scope of the aims of the parent project. if the parent grant has multiple research projects, the supplement project must not only be within the general scope of the parent grant, but also be relevant to a specific project listed within the parent grant. to meet the expectations of this award, a parent award may wish to add a lmic foreign component. adding a foreign component under a grant or cooperative agreement to a domestic or foreign organization requires nci prior approval. the sponsoring institution should request this approval prior to submitting the application.eligible parent awards and number of applicationsprogram director/principal investigator (pd/pi)mentor(s)esli candidatesfor the purpose of this nosi, institutions are encouraged to identify lmic-based investigators who are in the early stages of establishing their independent research careers, and who demonstrate potential to succeed. eligible candidates must meet all the criteria below:application due date: applications can be submitted on a rolling basis between april 22, 2023 - may 22, 2023, at 5:00 pm local time of applicant organization for fy 2023 funding. the nosi will expire may 23, 2023.applications for this initiative must be submitted using the following opportunity or its subsequent reissued equivalent.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide and the funding opportunity announcement used for submission must be followed, with the following additions:budget and period of support:research strategy:the research strategy section is limited to no more than six (6) pages and should include the following:in addition, the application should also include the following:nci will conduct administrative reviews and will support the most meritorious applications submitted for consideration, based upon the programmatic priorities and availability of funds.overall impactscored review criteriaesli/candidateprimary mentor and co-mentor(s)research planmentoring and career development plan/career goals and objectivesenvironment & institutional commitment to the candidatepost award reportingsupplement progress reports: the pi is required to submit a final progress report for the supplement award to the program director listed on this nosi.please direct all inquiries to:james r. alaro, phdcenter for global healthnational cancer institute (nci)telephone: (240) 660-1036email: james.alaro@nih.govweekly toc for this announcement nih funding opportunities and noticesnote: for help accessing pdf, rtf, ms word, excel, powerpoint, audio or video files, see help downloading files.