Notice of Special Interest (NOSI):Sleep and Substance Use Disorders
https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/notice-files/NOT-DA-20-021.html
notice number: not-da-20-021key dates release date: march 25, 2020 first available due date: june 05, 2020 expiration date: september 08, 2023issued by national institute on drug abuse (nida)purposethe purpose of this noticeis to inform potential applicants to the national institute on drug abuse (nida) about a special interest in research project applications focusing on the relationship between processes that regulate sleep/circadian rhythm and the risk, trajectory and treatment of substance use disorders. identifying sleep/circadian mechanisms and determining the directionality of sleep and substance use disorder interactions addresses a knowledge gap and can present new opportunities for improved therapy and outcomes. multi-disciplinary, multiple-investigator teams of researchers combining expertise in substance use disorders and mechanisms of sleep/circadian rhythms would be optimal in addressing these questions. this notice encourages studies of processes and mechanisms linking drugs of abuse and sleep/circadian rhythms. the study of other psychoactive drugs or efficacy focused clinical trials will be considered non-responsive. likewise, descriptive studies or clinical trials solely focused on therapeutic endpoints in the absence of a mechanistic evaluation of the intervention also would be considered non-responsive.backgroundthis notice invites pre-clinical and clinical research applications to elucidate sleep and circadian mechanisms contributing to substance use disorder (sud). sleep dysregulation including insufficient sleep duration, altered sleep architecture, poor sleep quality and irregular circadian rhythms is prevalent in >75% of individuals with sud and represents a challenge to recovery. conversely, acute and chronic exposure to drugs of abuse affect sleep and circadian rhythm. the substantial overlap between neuronal systems and processes involved in sud and sleep likely underlies these interactions . however, this has not been systematically investigated at a mechanistic level and the regulation of sleep and circadian rhythms has not been fully integrated with the neurobiology of sud mechanisms and risk factors. mechanistic studies to determine the directionality of sleep and sud interactions are needed to understand fundamental processes linking sud and sleep dysregulation, and to identify new targets for prevention and improved therapy. this could optimally be achieved by interdisciplinary teams combining expertise in the mechanisms of sleep and circadian rhythms and the neurobiology of sud.applications need to test mechanistic hypothesis and can use behavioral, pharmacological, genetic or other experimental models of sleep and circadian dysregulation and sud. studies are needed to discover how sleep dysregulation, regulation, untreated sleep disorders, and altered circadian rhythms factor into the neurobiological and pharmacological substrate changes underlying addiction, dependence, withdrawal, relapse and recovery, including reward/reinforcement, risk taking behavior/mood regulation, autonomic regulation/integration, pain perception, and signaling in neuropharmacological pathways relevant to substance abuse. an array of approaches, including in vivo, in vitro, genomic, imaging, pharmacologic, computational or other strategies may be proposed to study behavioral, physiological, molecular, genetic and pharmacological mechanisms coupling sleep and sud. applications need include an explicit justification of the potential application to sud. descriptive studies and studies evaluating the efficacy of one or more therapeutic interventions without a rigorous mechanistic study design would not be responsive for this notice.research objectivesexamples of approaches that are encouraged include, but are not limited to those listed below:application and submission informationthis notice applies to due dates on or after june 5, 2020 and subsequent receipt dates through september 8, 2022.submit applications for this initiative using one of the following funding opportunity announcements (foas) or any reissues of these announcement through the expiration date of this notice.ll instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide and the funding opportunity announcement used for submission must be followed, with the following additions:inquiriesscientific/research contact(s) sunila nair, ph.d. national institute on drug abuse (nida) telephone: (301) 827-6832 email: sunila.nair@nih.govweekly toc for this announcement nih funding opportunities and noticesnote: for help accessing pdf, rtf, ms word, excel, powerpoint, audio or video files, see help downloading files.