Notice of Special Interest: Advances in Research for the Treatment, Services, and Recovery of Alcohol Use Disorder
https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/notice-files/NOT-AA-20-022.html
november 27, 2020pa-20-183 - nih research project grant (parent r01 clinical trial required)pa-20-185 - nih research project grant (parent r01 clinical trial not allowed)pa-20-184 - nih research project grant (parent r01 basic experimental studies with humans required)pa-20-200 - nih small research grant program (parent r03 clinical trial not allowed)pa-20-194 - nih exploratory/developmental research grant program (parent r21 clinical trial required)pa-20-195 - nih exploratory/developmental research grant program (parent r21 clinical trial not allowed)pa-20-196 - nih exploratory/developmental research grant program (parent r21 basic experimental studies with humans required)national institute on alcohol abuse and alcoholism (niaaa)the purpose of this notice of special interest (nosi) is to advance research on various topics that fall within niaaa’s division of treatment and recovery research (dtrr). dtrr’s research interests are wide-ranging and encompass broad categories such as health services, behavioral therapies and mechanisms of behavioral change (mobc), recovery, translational research, and innovative methods and technologies for alcohol use disorder (aud) treatment and sustaining recovery. other areas of interest include topics focusing on special-emphasis and underserved populations, including nih-designated u.s. health disparity populations, as well as those with co-occurring disorders; and fetal alcohol spectrum disorders (fasd). in all studies, at all levels from fasd to elderly, efforts will be made to include participants that reflect the diversity of the population at large.backgroundin the united states, 59 million people exceeded heavy drinking limits within the past year, and 15 million adults were diagnosed with aud. unfortunately, of those 15 million, only one in 10 received formal treatment for aud. those who did receive treatment rarely received the full range of evidence-based treatment options. currently, less than 4 percent were prescribed medications approved for the treatment of aud by the u.s. food and drug administration.dtrr’s research portfolio seeks to increase the proportion of individuals with aud who receive appropriate, evidence-based treatment by supporting research across a broad range of topic areas and populations, as described in detail below.broad research topicshealth servicesalcohol health services research seeks to bridge the gap between those who need treatment and those who receive treatment. dtrr’s health services research portfolio focuses on four main areas: 1) make evidence-based treatment more accessible to patients; 2) make treatment settings more appealing to patients; 3) make treatments more affordable; and 4) disseminate and implement evidence-based behavioral and pharmacological treatments into professional healthcare practices. examples of topics of interest to dttr include, but are not limited to, investigations that:behavioral therapies and mechanisms of behavior changethe alcohol treatment field has made enormous progress in developing and evaluating behavioral treatments for heavy drinking and aud. despite these advances, little is known about how to successfully disseminate and implement empirically-supported behavioral treatments for aud within real-word addiction treatment settings. research over the past 15 years focusing on mechanisms of behavior change (mobc) has helped to better define how specific behavioral treatments for aud are most likely to work (e.g., through behavior change related to self-efficacy and therapeutic alliance). but a gap exists between our understanding of the way treatments work and how best to translate those therapies into practice. niaaa encourages research that can help identify, evaluate, and disseminate empirically-supported mobc best practices. research is especially needed to develop and disseminate models for putting behavioral treatments for aud into practice in a broad range of settings and for use by the full range of professionals involved in treatment (e.g., addiction specialists, counselors, social workers, criminal justice professionals, pediatricians, and mental health and medical practitioners).examples of research topics include, but are not limited to, investigations that:recoveryniaaa’s updated definition of recovery recognizes the importance of both recovery from dsm-5 aud criteria and cessation of heavy drinking (https://www.niaaa.nih.gov/division-treatment-recovery-research) ). researchers are encouraged to use this definition as a framework in new recovery studies. examples of research topics include, but are not limited to, investigations that:translational researchclinical research examines the neurobiological, cognitive, and genetic processes underlying addiction and offers ways for applying those findings to practice and predicting treatment outcomes. examples of research topics include, but are not limited to, investigations that:innovative methods and technologies for aud treatment and recovery new technology (e.g., mobile, computer, web-based applications, artificial intelligence (ai)/machine learning, geo-locations, and robotics) has the potential to expand both the accessibility and effectiveness of a variety of treatments and interventions. research is needed to further advance digital technology for the diagnosis, intervention, treatment, and maintenance of recovery from aud. developing new analytical approaches is critical for evaluating treatments, such as tracking results in subpopulations of people with aud, comparing linear and dynamic models of clinical findings, conducting trajectory analysis and growth mixture modeling to capture changes in recovery over time, and developing and implementing adaptive clinical trial designs and statistical analyses. examples of research topics include, but are not limited to, investigations that:special-emphasis populationshealth disparitiesaud research to examine health disparities typically has not kept pace with other areas of investigation and there is a need for more research to develop and implement effective behavioral treatments for vulnerable populations. it is important to understand how the social determinants of health (i.e., environmental, social, cultural, and economic factors) influence outcomes and sustainability of effects. in addition, there is a need for more research to identify and address unique barriers to healthcare access among underrepresented and underserved populations, including stigma, mistrust, and bias, gender, socioeconomic status, educational and health literacy levels, language barriers, and immigration status. there is a need for greater emphasis on developing novel, accessible, cost-effective, culturally grounded interventions in partnership with communities, in addition to adapting existing mainstream interventions for use by diverse populations. examples of research topics include, but are not limited to, investigations that:aud patients with psychiatric and substance abuse comorbidityaud patients often suffer from comorbid psychiatric and substance abuse. psychiatric disorders frequently comorbid with aud include depression, anxiety, posttraumatic stress disorder (ptsd), insomnia, bipolar disorder, and schizophrenia. this population experiences poorer treatment outcomes, and tends to have higher rates of clinical impairment, psychosocial and medical problems, utilization of health services, and suicide, as well as lower quality of life than patients who suffer from aud alone. developing comprehensive and individualized treatment strategies for persons with comorbid aud is essential for treating their complex problems. for example, how can we effectively integrate treatments for mental health disorders and aud? how does treatment of one disorder affect the outcome of the other? how do the disorders interact to increase the severity and clinical course of each disorder? examples of research topics include, but are not limited to, investigations that:womenhistorically men have tended to drink at higher rates and experience more alcohol-related problems than women. however, in recent years, the gender gap has narrowed. women are increasingly likely to have rates of drinking and heavy drinking similar to those observed in men, to be diagnosed with aud, and to experience the negative consequences of drinking (such as car crashes). moreover, many of alcohol’s harmful physiological effects have been found to occur more rapidly and severely in women than men. this includes blackouts, liver inflammation, brain atrophy, cognitive deficits, certain cancers, negative affect during withdrawal, and stress and anxiety-induced relapse. more research is needed to better understand sex differences in alcohol use and alcohol-related consequences. examples of research topics include, but are not limited to, investigations that:adolescents and young adults although recent data show that u.s. adolescents in general are drinking less alcohol, when they do drink, they consume alcohol in ways that are particularly harmful. many young adults are also drinking heavily and experience myriad associated negative consequences. these include an increased risk for alcohol overdose, blackouts, falls, drowning, unplanned sexual encounters, intimate partner violence, and co-occurring mental health conditions. epidemiological data clearly show an association between early onset of drinking (particularly before age 14) and later alcohol-related problems. finally, research also shows that alcohol may cause changes in the developing brain. because the human brain continues to develop past adolescence and into young adulthood, young people are at particularly high risk for experiencing alcohol-related harms. future research needs to examine whether alcohol-related brain changes occurring in adolescence and young adulthood have long-term consequences. research also needs to examine how treatment strategies can be better tailored to this special population. examples of research topics include, but are not limited to, investigations that:older adultsin the united states, 1 in 10 older adults engage in binge drinking. alcohol misuse is increasing in this population, in both men and women, with potentially serious consequences. drinking among older adults contributes to accelerated aging in some brain regions, including the frontal cortex, leading to impaired cognitive function and resulting in deficits in learning, memory, and motor function. developing and evaluating early intervention approaches may help to stem these brain effects. examples of research topics include, but are not limited to, investigations that:fetal alcohol spectrum disorder (fasd)prenatal alcohol exposure can cause a range of intellectual and behavioral problems, including executive function deficits, poor working memory, learning problems, impulse control problems, attention deficits, communication issues, and poor social skills. these problems can appear at any time during childhood and last a lifetime. recent studies estimate that about 1 to 5 percent of u.s. first-grade children have fasd. developing and evaluating novel therapeutic approaches for use in prenatal and childhood conditions can help improve the health and quality of life for individuals with fasd. examples of research topics include, but are not limited to, investigations that:application and submission informationthis notice applies to due dates on or after october 5, 2020 and subsequent receipt dates through september 8, 2023.submit applications for this initiative using one of the following funding opportunity announcements (foas) or any reissues of these announcement through the expiration date of this notice.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide and the funding opportunity announcement used for submission must be followed, with the following additions:applications nonresponsive to terms of this nosi will not be considered for the nosi initiative.scientific/research contact(s)for general inquiries and those specific to behavioral treatment development/mechanisms of behavior change and recovery portfolios contact: brett t. hagman, ph.d. national institute on alcohol abuse and alcoholism (niaaa) division of treatment and recovery research (dtrr) telephone: 301-443-0638 email: brett.hagman@nih.govfor inquires specific to health services/implementation science portfolios contact: laura kwako, ph.d. national institute on alcohol abuse and alcoholism (niaaa) division of treatment and recovery research (dtrr) telephone: 301-451-8507 email: laura.kwako@nih.govfor inquires specific to women’s issues, co-occurring psychiatric disorders (depression, anxiety disorders, ptsd, bipolar disorder, and schizophrenia), health disparities, and fasd portfolios contact: deidra roach, m.d. national institute on alcohol abuse and alcoholism (niaaa) division of treatment and recovery research (dtrr) telephone: 301-443-5820 email: droach@mail.nih.govfor inquires specific to adolescents/young adults, older populations, translational research, innovative methods and technologies for aud treatment and recovery, co-occurring substance abuse and ptsd, and insomnia portfolios contact: mariela shirley, ph.d. national institute on alcohol abuse and alcoholism (niaaa) division of treatment and recovery research (dtrr) telephone: 301-402-9389 email: shirleym@mail.nih.govpeer review contact(s)examine your era commons account for review assignment and contact information (information appears two weeks after the submission due date).financial/grants management contact(s)ms. judy fox national institute on alcohol abuse and alcoholism (niaaa) telephone: 301-443-4704 email: jfox@mail.nih.govweekly toc for this announcement nih funding opportunities and noticesnote: for help accessing pdf, rtf, ms word, excel, powerpoint, audio or video files, see help downloading files.