Notice of Special Interest (NOSI): Simulation Modeling and Systems Science to Address Health Disparities
https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/notice-files/NOT-MD-20-025.html
august 13, 2020not-md-20-030 - notice of correction to application submission information for not-md-20-025pa-20-185 - nih research project grant (parent r01 clinical trial not allowed)national institute on minority health and health disparities (nimhd) national institute of arthritis and musculoskeletal and skin diseases (niams) national institute on drug abuse (nida) national institute of mental health (nimh) national library of medicine (nlm) national cancer institute (nci) all applications to this funding opportunity announcement should fall within the mission of the institutes/centers. the following nih offices may co-fund applications assigned to those institutes/centers. division of program coordination, planning and strategic initiatives, office of disease prevention (odp) office of behavioral and social sciences research (obssr)national institute of arthritis and musculoskeletal and skin diseases (niams)national institute on drug abuse (nida)national institute of mental health (nimh)national library of medicine (nlm)national cancer institute (nci)all applications to this funding opportunity announcement should fall within the mission of the institutes/centers. the following nih offices may co-fund applications assigned to those institutes/centers.division of program coordination, planning and strategic initiatives, office of disease prevention (odp)office of behavioral and social sciences research (obssr)purposethe purpose of this notice of special interest is to support investigative and collaborative research focused on developing and evaluating simulation modeling and systems science to understand and address minority health and health disparities.backgroundalthough scientific and technological advances have improved the health and well-being of the u.s. population overall, racial and ethnic minorities, socioeconomically disadvantaged, underserved rural and sexual and gender minority populations continue to experience a disproportionate share of many acute or chronic diseases and adverse health outcomes, including the burden related to the recent covid-19 disease outbreaks caused by the novel coronavirus (sars-cov-2) pandemic, and/or other pandemics, epidemics (e.g., dengue fever, zika, chikungunya) or public health emergencies. several characteristics make addressing health disparities an especially challenging problem. the challenges lie in the interactions of influences at various levels (e.g., individual, interpersonal, family, community, societal), the diversity of the relevant mediators (e.g., exposures, resilience factors), and the multiple interacting mechanisms involved (e.g., biological, behavioral, environmental, sociocultural, and healthcare system). the array of determinants of health across levels and domains are depicted in the nimhd research framework (https://www.nimhd.nih.gov/about/overview/research-framework.html).systems science considers different components within complex systems across multiple levels to help understand their interactions and influences. the dynamic relationship that unfolds when considering contextual factors that contribute to health inequities, such as neighborhood segregation, employment insecurity, housing insecurity, food insecurity, neighborhood safety, social networks, and community disempowerment, cannot be fully captured with currently available data and analytic methods that focus on single, independent factors.simulation modeling and systems science (smss) provides avenues for modeling relevant multiple processes, testing plausible scenarios, understanding the magnitude of intended and unintended consequences of specific interventions, and having the option to adjust and refine simulated intervention designs prior to actual implementation testing in the real world. although no simulation models can replace real world settings or scenarios, many are becoming indispensable for decision making, such as national or local pandemic planning, and can have a profound impact on health policies relevant to minority health and health disparities. the field of smss may help to guide health disparities research, in identifying causal inference and what types of situations will be most amenable to research, policy, and practice interventions and in implicating where leverage may be best applied for any health disparity population.it is important to advance smss using new big data technologies to understand the etiology of health disparities and guide intervention development and implementation. smss are also highly relevant to late-stage translation research because they integrate information and evidence from various sources such as epidemiology, clinical guidelines, sociology, behavioral science, psychology, neuroscience, and economics, to formulate complex predictive models. the etiology, pathways, and mechanisms that result in health disparities mimic a complex adaptive system. models of health disparities seek to illuminate critical elements and intervention points that can tip the system for improved health or provide insights into why health has not improved. modeling multi-level interventions is important for addressing how the interactions and influences of health determinants function. smss offer an opportunity to explore the potentially complex influences on population health at each intervention level. of importance is the ability to identify unanticipated implementation research strategies that may yield high return. smss approaches can answer the critical questions of what works, under what conditions, what strategies and combinations of strategies will yield innovative ways to address disparities. also, other significant questions include: why something did not work as anticipated, and how could the intervention be modified to be more effective in addressing disparities.research objectivesresearch methodologyexamples of research methods could include but are not limited to:research topicsapplications should be relevant to the objectives of the funding opportunity announcement and to at least one of the participating institutes’ and offices' research interests. researchers are strongly encouraged to review the general research interests of the participating ics.national institute on minority health and health disparities (nimhd)nimhd is interested in several research priorities that could have significant impact on understanding and addressing minority health and health disparities using simulation modeling and systems science. the research must focus on one or more minority or health disparity populations (african americans/blacks, hispanics/latinos, american indians/alaska natives, asians, native hawaiians and other pacific islanders, socioeconomically disadvantaged populations, underserved rural populations, and sexual and gender minority populations).examples of potential topic areas include but are not limited to:national institute of mental health (nimh)nimh has specific interest in improving the mental health outcomes of underserved populations. nimh is also participating in modeling approaches that support the national action alliance for suicide prevention’s efforts to reduce the suicide rate by 20% by 2025. because many underserved populations often experience greater suicide risk, and less service access and engagement, simulation modeling of potential improvements for underserved populations could identify the most promising pathways to reduce suicide deaths and associated mental health problems. simulation modeling approaches could include, but are not limited to:national institute on drug abuse (nida)nida is interested in several research priorities that could have significant impact on understanding and addressing minority health and health disparities using simulation modeling and systems science:office of disease prevention (odp)the odp is interested in co-funding simulation modeling and systems science research projects to identify combinations of preventive interventions that, if implemented and disseminated broadly, could reduce health disparities for a wide variety of preventable conditions in a state or region, or across the country. the odp is particularly interested in evaluating multi-level interventions in the context of these simulation modeling and systems science research projects. of greatest interest would be applications focused on estimating reductions in health disparities for the leading risk factors associated with mortality in the united states: tobacco use, overweight/obesity, poor diet and physical inactivity, alcohol misuse, environmental exposures, infectious disease, injury and violence (includes self-harm), risky sexual behavior, and substance abuse. in addition, the odp also encourages applications to support projects led by early stage investigators. for more information about odp strategic priorities, visit: https://prevention.nih.gov/about-odp/strategic-plan-2019-2023.national institute on deafness and other communication disorders (nidcd)nidcd is interested in supporting simulation modeling and systems science (smss) research projects to advance understanding of hearing impairment and other communication disorders that can lead to disparities and inequities in access and utilization of health care, rehabilitation treatments, and knowledge of preventive measures. hearing impairment and other communication disorders are not rare in the u.s. population – a conservative estimate is that 46 million americans experience one or more communication disorders. since communication disorders make the basic components of communication (sensing, interpreting, and responding to people and things in our environment) challenging, these disorders can not only compromise physical health, but also affect the emotional, social, recreational, educational, and vocational aspects of life. the effects often ripple out to affect families and social networks, including those at work and school. the total economic impact of communication disorders addressed by the nidcd mission areas of hearing, balance, smell, taste, voice, speech and language with regards to quality of life and unfulfilled potential is substantial. the prevalence of communication disorders is expected to increase as the population ages, survival rates of medically fragile infants improve, and the numbers of children and adults affected by traumatic injuries and diseases increase.examples of potential topic areas include but are not limited to:national cancer institute (nci)nci is interested in modeling efforts that focus on explaining why disparities exist, how disparities can be alleviated in the future, what combination of cancer control activities (which are considered optimal for the general population) can be more appropriately tailored for the needs in specific populations. of additional interest is the potential population impact of programs and interventions which have shown promise to reduce disparities in specific studies. while disparities will typically be studied in terms of standard racial/ethnic characterizations, modelers are encouraged to utilize data sources that will enable modeling in terms of other important factors such as income/education, insurance status, and geography (e.g., rural vs. urban). applications are especially encouraged which link the upstream antecedents of disparities to the long term downstream outcomes. nci’s interest focuses on modeling in two related domains:national library of medicine (nlm)nlm is interested in research projects that incorporate innovative biomedical informatics and data sciences approaches into simulation modeling and systems science to reduce health disparities across all segments of the u.s. population. nlm is interested in smss research projects that are generalizable across multiple biomedical domains. examples of potential topic areas include but are not limited to:national institute of arthritis and musculoskeletal and skin diseases (niams)the mission of the national institute of arthritis and musculoskeletal and skin diseases is to support research into the causes, treatment, and prevention of arthritis and musculoskeletal and skin diseases. together, musculoskeletal and arthritis disorders are the third leading cause of disability in the united states. a disproportionate share of disability may be experienced by underrepresented and underserved populations, including racial and ethnic minorities, as well as socioeconomically disadvantaged, under-resourced rural, and sexual and gender minority populations. niams has specific interest in simulation modeling and systems sciences research to identify combinations of evidence-based secondary prevention interventions, at multiple levels, that if implemented broadly, could have potential to reduce health disparities and improve outcomes for diseases within the niams mission area.application and submission informationthis notice applies to due dates on or after october 5, 2020 and subsequent receipt dates through may 8, 2023.submit applications for this initiative using one of the following funding opportunity announcements (foas) or any reissues of these announcement through the expiration date of this notice.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide and the funding opportunity announcement used for submission must be followed, with the following additions:applications nonresponsive to terms of this nosi will not be considered for the nosi initiative.scientific/research contact(s)rada dagher, ph.d., m.p.h.national institute on minority health and health disparities (nimhd)telephone: 301-451-2187email: rada.dagher@nih.govjennifer humensky, ph.d. national institute of mental health (nimh) telephone: 301-480-1265 email: humenskyjl@nih.govkeisher highsmith, dr.ph.national institute on drug abuse (nida)telephone: 301-402-1984email: keisher.highsmith@nih.goelizabeth neilson, ph.d., m.p.h., m.s.n. office of disease prevention (odp) telephone: 301-827-5578 email: neilsone@mail.nih.govhoward j. hoffman, m.a.national institute on deafness and other communication disorders (nidcd)telephone: 240-506-1974email: hoffmanh@nidcd.nih.goveric j. (rocky) feuer, ph.d., m.s.national cancer institute (nci)telephone: 240-276-6772e-mail: feuerr@mail.nih.govlyn hardy, phd, rnnational library of medicine (nlm)telephone: 301-594-1297email: lynda.hardy@nih.govstephanie george, ph.d.national institute of arthritis and musculoskeletal and skin diseases (niams)telephone: 301-594-4974email: stephanie.george@nih.govmichael spittel, ph.d. office of behavioral and social sciences research (obssr) telephone: 301-451-4286 email: michael.spittel@nih.govobssr does not award grants. please contact one of the ic program contacts listed below for questions regarding funding interest.financial/grants management contact(s)priscilla grant national institute on minority health and health disparities (nimhd) telephone: 301-594-8412 email: pg38h@nih.gov weekly toc for this announcement nih funding opportunities and noticesnote: for help accessing pdf, rtf, ms word, excel, powerpoint, audio or video files, see help downloading files.