Notice of Special Interest (NOSI): Advance Data Science Approaches Through Secondary Data Analysis to Reveal Scientific Insights of COVID-19 Testing Technologies (R21)
https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/notice-files/NOT-OD-23-040.html
december 19, 2022pa-20-195 - nih exploratory/developmental research grant program (parent r21 clinical trial not allowed)par-20-150 - nimhd exploratory/developmental research grant program (r21 - clinical trial optional)office of data science strategy (odss) national institute on aging (nia) national institute of arthritis and musculoskeletal and skin diseases (niams) national institute of biomedical imaging and bioengineering (nibib) eunice kennedy shriver national institute of child health and human development (nichd) national institute of dental and craniofacial research (nidcr) national institute on drug abuse (nida) national institute of mental health (nimh) national institute on minority health and health disparities (nimhd) national library of medicine (nlm) all applications to this funding opportunity announcement should fall within the mission of the institutes/centers. the following nih offices may co-fund applications assigned to those institutes/centers. office of research on women's health (orwh)national institute on aging (nia)national institute of arthritis and musculoskeletal and skin diseases (niams)national institute of biomedical imaging and bioengineering (nibib)eunice kennedy shriver national institute of child health and human development (nichd)national institute of dental and craniofacial research (nidcr)national institute on drug abuse (nida)national institute of mental health (nimh)national institute on minority health and health disparities (nimhd)national library of medicine (nlm)all applications to this funding opportunity announcement should fall within the mission of the institutes/centers. the following nih offices may co-fund applications assigned to those institutes/centers.office of research on women's health (orwh)the purpose of this notice of special interest (nosi) is to support secondary data analysis to address questions and advance scientific inquiry related to sars-cov-2 through the existing data resources in the rapid acceleration of dignostics data hub (radx datahub), including and in conjunction with other data resources.backgroundthe rapid acceleration of diagnostics (radx) initiative is driving some of the nation’s most creative biomedical innovation by rapidly developing diverse covid-19 testing technologies to national demands, with a focus on strategies for making testing broadly available, particularly to diverse, vulnerable, and underserved populations. the radx data hub, (https://radx-hub.nih.gov/), is a centralized data repository for researchers to access datasets and analytic tools to the radx program components: radx-tech and radx advanced technology platforms (radx tech/atp), radx radical (radx-rad), radx underserved populations (radx-up), and digital health solutions (dhs). the radx-tech aims to speed the development, validation, and commercialization of innovative point-of-care and home-based tests, as well as improve clinical laboratory tests, that can directly detect virus. the radx-atp aims to advanced rapid scale-up technologies for achieving immediate, substantial increases in capacity. the radx-rad targets innovative settings or non-traditional technologies to evaluate the usability, accessibility, robustness, or accuracy of the detection of covid-19 infections. the radx-up aims to examine infection patterns and efforts for increasing access to and effectiveness of testing methods through engagement with diverse communities and populations. the dhs aims to facilitate approaches that leverage multiple data sources, privacy-preserving technologies, and computational tools for managing population health and individuals’ lives during the covid-19 pandemic.research objectivesthe research objective of this nosi is to stimulate data science approaches by catalyzing the scientific value and revealing scientific insights through secondary analysis of existing data collected from the radx programs. the research topic areas may include, but are not limited to, biomedical, clinical, social, ethical, and behavioral issues.examples of secondary analyses projects include, but are not limited to:validate public health measuresinform patient carereduce health disparities for underserved and vulnerable populationsdrive innovation in technologies offering more user-friendly designshelp stop and/or track the spread of covid-19 virus or co-infectious materialsaddress better strategies to timely equip the biomedical workforce to test and identify future pathogens and other diseasesapplication and submission informationapplicants must select the ic and associated foa to use for submission of an application in response to the nosi. the selection must align with the ic requirements listed in order to be considered responsive to that foa. non-responsive applications will be withdrawn from consideration for this initiative.in addition, applicants using nih parent announcements (listed below) will be assigned to those ics on this nosi that have indicated those foas are acceptable and based on usual application-ic assignment practices.pa-20-195 - nih exploratory/developmental research grant program (parent r21 clinical trial not allowed)all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide and the funding opportunity announcement used for submission must be followed, with the following additions:for funding consideration, applicants must include “not-od-23-040” (without quotation marks) in the agency routing identifier field (box 4b) of the sf424 r&r form. applications without this information in box 4b will not be considered for this initiative.applications nonresponsive to terms of this nosi will be withdrawn from consideration for this initiative.scientific/research contact(s)partha bhattacharyya, ph.d. national institute on aging (nia) phone: (301) 496-3131 e-mail: bhattacharyyap@mail.nih.govjonathan w. king, ph.d. national institute on aging (nia) phone: (301) 402-4156 e-mail: kingjo@mail.nih.govmarie mancini, ph.d. national institute of arthritis and musculoskeletal and skin diseases (niams) telephone: 301-594-5032 email: mancinim2@mail.nih.govandrew weitz, ph.d. national institute of biomedical imaging and bioengineering (nibib) phone: (301) 451-7813 e-mail: andrew.weitz@nih.govrebecca f. rosen, ph.d. eunice kennedy shriver national institute of child health and human development (nichd) email: rebecca.rosen@nih.govnoffisat oki, ph.d. national institute of dental & craniofacial research (nidcr) phone: 301-402-6778 e-mail: noffisat.oki@nih.govsusan nicole wright, ph.d. national institute on drug abuse (nida) phone: 301-402-6683 e-mail: susan.wright@nih.govlori a.j. scott-sheldon, ph.d. national institute of mental health (nimh) telephone: 301-792-2309 e-mail: lori.scott-sheldon@nih.govnancy l. jones, ph.d. national institute on minority health and health disparities (nimhd) phone: 301-594-8945 e-mail: nancy.jones@nih.govyanli wang, ph.d. national library of medicine (nlm) phone: 301-827-7092 e-mail: yanli.wang@nih.govching-yi shieh, ph.d. office of research on women's health (orwh) phone:301-496-9186 e-mail: shiehchingyi@mail.nih.govlucy hsu, m.p.h. office of data science strategy (odss) e-mail: lucy.hsu@nih.govweekly toc for this announcement nih funding opportunities and noticesnote: for help accessing pdf, rtf, ms word, excel, powerpoint, audio or video files, see help downloading files.