Notice of Special Interest (NOSI): Bold New Bioengineering Research for Heart, Lung, Blood and Sleep Disorders and Diseases (Reissue)
https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/notice-files/NOT-HL-21-024.html
august 17, 2021not-hl-20-796 - notice of special interest (nosi): bold new bioengineering research for heart, lung, blood and sleep disorders and diseases (reissue)pa-20-195 - nih exploratory/developmental research grant program (parent r21 clinical trial not allowed)national heart, lung, and blood institute (nhlbi)this notice of special interest is a reissue of not-hl-20-796.the purpose of this nosi is to advise potential applicants to the national heart, lung and blood institute (nhlbi) of an area of special interest to support early phases of innovative bioengineering projects which are expected to transition their research into future follow-on funding, technologies, or commercial products. please note that this r21 program does not overlap with projects which are expected to transition their research into future follow-on funding, technologies, or commercial products. please note that this r21 program does not overlap with the nhlbi catalyze program, and it does focus on new investigator-initiated ideas that will feed into the catalyze pipeline.backgroundwhy bioengineering? the nhlbi bioengineering community has transformed medicine by creating the artificial heart, pacemakers and icds, vads, stents, biosensors, human tissue chip devices and cell/gene/combination product therapies. these examples demonstrate that bioengineering is a synergistic approach that crosses not only all technology-related areas of nhlbi, but also all of our disease-specific domains. further, bioengineering is unique because unlike most stand-alone scientific topics, it demands collaboration across disciplines, which looks to be necessary for advancement of needed technologies. the bioengineering community’s ability to achieve alternative and more effective therapies is an urgent need for nhlbi. it is envisioned that this targeted pa will serve as an opportunity to spur truly novel ideas, address scientific gaps, and to programmatically balance bioengineering projects across the nhlbi.research objectivesthis notice of special interest (nosi) invites discovery- and design-driven bioengineering research ideas that are important across the institute and that are critical for future hypothesis-generating projects. it is noteworthy that this program emphasizes development, not so much efficacy, of first-generation prototypes. the nhlbi is interested in the development of new ideas for diagnostics, therapeutics, surgical technologies, computational modeling tools, smart biomaterials for self-adjusting implants, and nanotechnologies, as applied to the cardiovascular, pulmonary, non-malignant hematologic, and sleep health mission areas of the institute.topic areas are limited to early stage, non-product definition (i.e., non-catalyze program) exploratory research in terms of:application and submission informationsubmit applications for this initiative using the following funding opportunity announcement (foa) or any reissues of the announcement through the expiration date of this nosi.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide and the funding opportunity announcement used for submission must be followed, with the following additions:although nhlbi is not listed as a participating organization in all the foas listed above, applications for this initiative will be accepted.applications nonresponsive to terms of this nosi will be withdrawn from consideration for this initiative.scientific/research contact(s)narasimhan danthi, ph.d. division of cardiovascular sciences telephone: 301-435-5170 email: ndanthi@mail.nih.govmartha s. lundberg, ph.d. division of cardiovascular sciences telephone: 301-435-0513 email: lundberm@nhlbi.nih.govalbert lee, ph.d. division of cardiovascular sciences telephone: 301-435-0513 email: alee@mail.nih.govmarishka k. brown, ph.d. division of lung diseases telephone: 301-435-0199 email: marishka.brown@nih.govqing “sara” lin, ph.d. division of lung diseases telephone: 301-435-0222 email: sara.lin@nih.govasif rizwan, ph.d division of blood diseases and resources telephone: 301-435-0070 email: asif.rizwan@nih.govronald warren, ph.d. division of blood diseases and resources telephone: 301-827-8288 email: ronald.warren@nih.govpeer review contact(s)examine your era commons account for review assignment and contact information (information appears two weeks after the submission due date).financial/grants management contact(s)alyse burton telephone: 301-827-8019 email: alyse.burton@nih.govweekly toc for this announcement nih funding opportunities and noticesnote: for help accessing pdf, rtf, ms word, excel, powerpoint, audio or video files, see help downloading files.