RESCINDED - Notice of Special Interest (NOSI): International Research Collaboration on Drug Abuse and Addiction Research
https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/notice-files/NOT-DA-21-002.html
rescindedjuly 14, 2021expired on july 22, 2021 and resissued as not-da-21-064 (per not-da-21-063)pa-20-183 - nih research project grant (parent r01 clinical trial required)pa-20-185 - nih research project grant (parent r01 clinical trial not allowed)pa-20-200 - nih small research grant program (parent r03 clinical trial not allowed)pa-20-195 - nih exploratory/developmental research grant program (parent r21 clinical trial not allowed)pa-20-272 - administrative supplements to existing nih grants and cooperative agreements (parent admin supp clinical trial optional)not-da-21-063 - notice of early expiration to not-da-21-002national institute on drug abuse (nida)the purpose of this notice is to encourage collaborative research applications that take advantage of opportunities outside of the united states. applications examining all areas of nida-supported research addressing the causes, consequences, treatment, and prevention of drug use, misuse, and addiction are encouraged. projects should be conducted through newly formed or well-established partnerships between an investigator in a u.s.-based institution and a scientist working in another country. all nih grant applications for research to be conducted outside the united states must establish that the proposal takes advantage of unique research opportunities in other countries, speeds scientific discovery, and advances u.s. health science.backgroundthe global burden of disease (gbd) studies have documented how significant increases in drug use and the diagnosis of substance use disorders (sud) contribute to drug-related morbidity and mortality. between 1990 and 2017, drug-related age-standardized disability adjusted life year (daly) rates nearly tripled in the united states. by 2040, gbd data predicts that drug-related mortality will be among the top 10 causes of death in australasia, eastern europe, and high-income north america. the world drug report identified 269 million people who used drugs in 2018, with 35.6 million people diagnosed with a sud; however, only 1 in 8 people who needed treatment for sud had access to treatment services. the 2020 report called for international cooperation to improve research, data collection, training programs, and implementation of evidence-based prevention and treatment interventions.suds are complex disorders involving disruption of brain circuits involved in reward, decision-making, learning, and self-control. they are mediated by complex biological, social, environmental, and developmental factors that dynamically interact to influence risk, trajectory, and outcomes. understanding this complexity will require drawing upon multiple disciplines across biomedicine, including neuroscience, genetics/epigenetics, behavioral and social sciences, development research, and information sciences. technological advances over the past several years in neuroimaging, optogenetics, gene editing technology, epigenomics, and other innovations are giving us the ability to probe this complexity in entirely new ways, as in the application of big data science to elucidate new biology related to addiction. data harmonization encourages data and resource sharing and permits comparisons within and across localities, regions, and nations. increasing scientific rigor, reproducibility, and real-world relevance of research.research findings from one country can have important implications for best practices in drug use and addiction policy, prevention, and treatment in all countries that are experiencing increases in substance use prevalence. continuing research into implementation of evidence-based prevention and treatment interventions in settings with limited resources is applicable to both international settings and those u.s. regions that face similar structural, legal, or fiscal constraints. applications should address the potential of proposed research for advancing domestic u.s. public health and international partners must provide talent, resources, populations, or other resources not found in the united states. nida is committed to supporting health equality and building a strong, diverse, multidisciplinary scientific workforce in the united states and abroad. leveraging the global network of scientific experts on addiction will help nida ensure that we all learn from one another’s successes and failures, advance science on the causes and consequences of drug use and addiction, and apply that knowledge to improve individual and public health.research objectivessubstances that are of high priority:basic research on neuroscience and biologyepidemiology, intervention, and implementation researchpolicy research (social determinants of health? could also be part of prevention and implementation research above)(would prefer here if ok as this is the language i got from despr)recovery researchresearch related to:linkages between hiv/aids and drug use (should this have been mentioned earlier within the background section?)(i think hiv/aids is becoming less urgent as a driver of internaitonal research and so while it should be mentioned and included i think putting it into the background would give the sense that it is the overriding topic of interest. certaintly ok to move it if you feel differently)pa-20-183: nih research project grant (parent r01 clinical trial required)pa-20-185: nih research project grant (parent r01 clinical trial not allowed)pa-20-200: nih small research grant program (parent r03 clinical trial not allowed)pa-20-195: nih exploratory/developmental research grant program (parent r21 clinical trial not allowed)pa-20-272: administrative supplements to existing nih grants and cooperative agreements (parent admin supp clinical trial optional)application and submission informationthis notice applies to due dates on or after october 5, 2021 and subsequent receipt dates through september 8, 2024.submit applications for this initiative using one of the following funding opportunity announcements (foas) or any reissues of these announcement through the expiration date of this notice.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide and the funding opportunity announcement used for submission must be followed, with the following additions:applications nonresponsive to terms of this nosi will not be considered for the nosi initiative.steve gust, ph.d. national institute on drug abuse (nida) telephone: 301-402-1118 email: sgust@nida.nih.govweekly toc for this announcement nih funding opportunities and noticesnote: for help accessing pdf, rtf, ms word, excel, powerpoint, audio or video files, see help downloading files.