Notice of Special Interest (NOSI): Availability of Administrative Supplements to INBRE Awards to Fund Research Collaborations
https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/notice-files/NOT-GM-22-001.html
november 23, 2021pa-20-272 - administrative supplements to existing nih grants and cooperative agreements (parent admin supp clinical trial optional)national institute of general medical sciences (nigms) all applications to this funding opportunity announcement should fall within the mission of the institutes/centers. the following nih offices may co-fund applications assigned to those institutes/centers. office of research on women's health (orwh)all applications to this funding opportunity announcement should fall within the mission of the institutes/centers. the following nih offices may co-fund applications assigned to those institutes/centers.office of research on women's health (orwh)the national institute of general medical sciences (nigms) announces the availability of funds for administrative supplements to institutional development award (idea) networks of biomedical research excellence (inbre) (p20) awards. these funds are intended for existing inbres to develop collaborations between investigators at the inbre partner institutions and investigators supported by one of the following programs:the goal of this supplement program is to encourage collaborations among investigators in idea states while providing students a broad continuum of research opportunities. in-state collaboration is encouraged, although collaborative projects can also be proposed between programs that span idea states. grant funds awarded to an idea-eligible institution may not be transferred via subcontract to an institution in a non-idea state.the collaborative project should address new research objectives in addition to those currently supported by a cobre, idea-ctr, idea co-funded r01s and r15s, ispctn, ctsa or narch award. the project must not constitute a change in scope of the parent award.for these supplements, the inbre must be active when the application is submitted (i.e., within the originally reviewed and approved project period), regardless of the time remaining on the current project. this applies also to programs that will collaborate with inbres.application and submission informationapplications by inbre awardees must be submitted to pa-20-272, "administrative supplements to existing nih grants and cooperative agreements (parent admin. supp. clinical trial optional)" or its subsequent reissuance by the application due date.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide and pa-20-272 (or its subsequent reissuance) must be followed, with the following additions:reportingrecipients will be required to include progress on the supplement project in the inbre rppr. the progress report should include information on scientific accomplishments, publications, collaborative grant applications submitted, and student involvement and their scholarly activities enabled by this award. the information will be used to assess the effectiveness of this award to develop inter-program collaborations at the inbre partner institutions. if necessary, pd/pis may be contacted after the completion of the grant period for updates on subsequent outcomes.applicants are strongly encouraged to review the frequently asked questions (faqs) related to this supplement posted on the drcb inbre webpage. applicants should notify the contact listed below that a request has been submitted in response to this nosi in order to facilitate efficient processing of the request.please direct all inquiries to:yang zhou, phdnational institute of general medical sciences (nigms)email:yang.zhou@nih.govweekly toc for this announcement nih funding opportunities and noticesnote: for help accessing pdf, rtf, ms word, excel, powerpoint, audio or video files, see help downloading files.