Notice of Special Interest (NOSI):  KC Donnelly Externship (Admin Supp Clinical Trial Not Allowed)
https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/notice-files/NOT-ES-22-003.html
december 2, 2021pa-20-272 - administrative supplements to existing nih grants and cooperative agreements (parent admin supp clinical trial optional)national institute of environmental health sciences (niehs)the purpose of this supplement is to provide support for successful applicants for translational/transdisciplinary opportunities and experiences within other superfund research program-funded centers, government laboratories, or other agencies (state, local, tribal).backgroundthe niehs superfund research program (srp) established an honorary supplemental award in memory of k.c. donnelly, ph.d., a longtime srp grantee who worked tirelessly to improve the understanding of environmental exposure and genotoxicity of complex chemical mixtures. dr. donnelly passed away on july 1, 2009. he was a dedicated mentor to his students and postdoctoral researchers, instilling in them the importance of applying their knowledge and findings to improve the health of communities exposed to environmental contaminants. to learn more about his srp-sponsored research at texas a&m university, please refer to his srp profile webpage.the purpose of these kc donnelly externship administrative supplements is to provide current srp-funded graduate students and post-doctoral researchers with translational/transdisciplinary opportunities and experiences within other srp-funded grants (e.g., p42, r01, sbir, r25, etc.), government laboratories (e.g., us epa, agency for toxic substances and disease registry (atsdr), niehs), or other agencies (state, local, tribal).examples of these types of externship experiences include, but are not limited to:successful applicants are invited to present their results at the subsequent srp annual meeting.application and submission informationapplications for this initiative must be submitted using the following opportunity or its subsequent reissued equivalent.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide and pa-20-272 must be followed, with the following additions:eligibilityto be eligible, an applicant must be: a graduate student (master's or ph.d.) or a postdoctoral researcher (status for graduate and postdoctoral researchers must be maintained for the duration of externship); conducting research/activities in any srp r01 grant or project/core within an srp p42 center.all supplement applications must contain the following:the extern candidate is encouraged to write the research strategy.award budgetall budgets should be submitted using the r&r detailed budget form, regardless of the form used for the parent award, and should only include funds requested for the additional supplement activities. justification for the requested budget must be provided. applicants can request support for up to three (3) months consisting of expenses associated with the externship (e.g., supplies, travel, and housing costs for the duration of the externship). the total direct costs are not to exceed $10,000. applicants should include travel funds to attend the subsequent year’s srp annual meeting where the recipient is invited to present their research (e.g., if applying in 2022, include travel in budget for the 2023 meeting). note: laptops and computers cannot be purchased with supplement money.other content and form of application:other sections should also be included if they are modified by the proposed supplement activities. in particular, changes to protections of human subjects, inclusion of women minorities and children, vertebrate animal welfare, biohazards, and resource sharing plan necessitate the addition of the completed relevant sections of the application. if additional human subjects or vertebrate animals will be added to the already existing human subject or vertebrate animal studies in the parent grant or by the hosting institution, applicants and pis should notify their po prior to submission of the application. if applicable, the applicant should state if human subjects research will be conducted as a part of this application and provide a description of the aspects of the study that will require human subjects. the applicant should provide documentation regarding the institutional review board (irb) approval date for the application and documentation showing that required training for conducting human subjects research has been completed. if the applicant is using human biospecimens (including cells) but believes it is not considered human subjects research, a justification is required as to why it should not be considered as such. for more information about what constitutes a study with human subjects, please see: protection of human subjects. any studies with the use of additional animal models (i.e., beyond those used in the parent grant) should have the institutional animal care and use committee (iacuc) approval number and date of study approval listed in this section and provide a description of the aspects of the study that will require animals. the applicant should state that required training for conducting animal research has been completed (i.e., provide date of completion).letter of intentalthough a letter of intent is not required, is not binding, and does not enter into the review of a subsequent application, the information that it contains allows ic staff to estimate the potential review workload and plan the review. one month before the application due date listed in application and submission information, prospective applicants are asked to submit a letter of intent to the program contact and the applicant's parent grant program administrator that includes the following information:the letter of intent should be sent by email to: brittany a. trottieremail: brittany.trottier@nih.govtelephone: 984-287-3331review and selection processsrp will conduct administrative reviews of applications and will support the most meritorious applications submitted for consideration, based upon availability of funds. additionally, program staff will evaluate application using the following selection factors:please direct all inquiries to:program contactbrittany trottiernational institute of environmental health sciencestelephone: 984-287-3331email: brittany.trottier@nih.govgrants management contactjenny greernational institute of environmental health sciencesphone: 984-287-3332email: jenny.greer@nih.govweekly toc for this announcement nih funding opportunities and noticesnote: for help accessing pdf, rtf, ms word, excel, powerpoint, audio or video files, see help downloading files.