Notice of Special Interest:  Epidemiology and Prevention in Alcohol Research
https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/notice-files/NOT-AA-20-017.html
july 13, 2020pa-20-185 - nih research project grant (parent r01 clinical trial not allowed)pa-20-184 - nih research project grant (parent r01 basic experimental studies with humans required)pa-20-183 - nih research project grant (parent r01 clinical trial required)pa-20-200 - nih small research grant program (parent r03 clinical trial not allowed)pa-20-194 - nih exploratory/developmental research grant program (parent r21 clinical trial required)pa-20-195 - nih exploratory/developmental research grant program (parent r21 clinical trial not allowed)pa-20-196 - nih exploratory/developmental research grant program (parent r21 basic experimental studies with humans required)national institute on alcohol abuse and alcoholism (niaaa)advancing knowledge about the epidemiology of alcohol use is fundamental to improving the public health. one prominent objective is to better understand the developmental trajectories of alcohol use, risky drinking, and alcohol use disorders. we know that people who initiate alcohol use at younger ages are more likely to develop alcohol use disorders. however, much is unknown about the train of events between early initiation, frequent heavy drinking, and the development of an alcohol use disorder. much is also unknown about how the various risk factors in this train of events interact with each other. genetics certainly plays a role. however, the ways in which epigenetic changes in gene expression are produced by interactions with environmental influences are only beginning to be understood. similarly, little is known about the correlates of "maturing out" of heavy drinking, which happens in most individuals, but not all.the salience of specific risk and protective factors varies over the life course, as well as by gender, ethnicity, and socioeconomic status. consequently, prevention strategies can be tailored to optimize effectiveness for a particular target group or age category.the outcomes targeted by prevention interventions are various. some seek to reduce early onset, binge drinking, high-intensity drinking, and alcohol use disorders. others target health conditions including hepatic disease, cardiovascular disease, and cancer. others target injuries or deaths attributed to traffic crashes, interpersonal violence, or suicide. the whole matrix of risk (and protective) factors by alcohol-related outcomes describes a rich set of potential interventions that can be developed and targeted.given these considerations, niaaa's priorities for research in epidemiology and prevention are, but not limited to:application and submission informationthis notice applies to due dates on or after october 5, 2020 and subsequent receipt dates through september 8, 2023.submit applications for this initiative using one of the following funding opportunity announcements (foas) or any reissues of these announcement through the expiration date of this notice.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide and the funding opportunity announcement used for submission must be followed, with the following additions:robert freeman, ph.d. national institute on alcohol abuse and alcoholism (niaaa) telephone: 301-443-8820 email: rfreeman@mail.nih.gov weekly toc for this announcement nih funding opportunities and noticesnote: for help accessing pdf, rtf, ms word, excel, powerpoint, audio or video files, see help downloading files.