Notice of Special Interest: NCCIH Administrative Supplements to NCATS CTSA Programs for Scholars Pursuing Complementary Health Research Career Development
notice number: not-at-20-010key dates release date: april 13, 2020 first available due date: october 01, 2020 expiration date: october 04, 2023issued by national center for complementary and integrative health (nccih) national center for advancing translational sciences (ncats)purposebackground the purpose of the national center for complementary and integrative health (nccih) administrative supplement to the national center for advancing translational sciences (ncats)-supported clinical and translational science awards (ctsa) program is to develop a pipeline of qualified clinician-scientist investigators with complementary and integrative health degrees and expertise conducting clinical or translational research on complementary clinical interventions for nccih high-priority research topics. this notice of special interest (nosi) will support additional scholar slots to those kl2 grants currently approved under the ctsa program. eligible scholars for the additional slots must have a doctoral, clinical complementary and integrative health degree (e.g.., d.a.o.m., d.c., d.o., d.p.t., and/or n.d.).ncats ctsa kl2 program the kl2 institutional career development core at each ctsa program hub supports research experience and career guidance activities expected to foster high-impact research careers in translational science. the kl2 program provides educational resources and access to research resources offered across the ctsa hub and integrated across multiple departments, schools, and clinical research institutes. the hubs promote a team science approach to research collaboration that includes a range of disciplines (including medicine, dentistry, nursing, pharmacy, public health, epidemiology, biostatistics, bioinformatics, and bioengineering).nccih supplements to ncats kl2 program the goal of this nccih kl2 administrative supplement program is to leverage the ctsa program network to enhance and foster research training in nccih high-priority research areas (e.g., pain management) for additional scholars with clinical complementary and integrative health degrees (e.g., d.a.o.m., d.c., d.o., d.p.t., and/or n.d.). this initiative directly responds to the national advisory council for complementary and integrative health working group report on clinician-scientist workforce development, and in particular, its recommendation #2: “continue to support a variety of career paths to the goal of clinician-scientist, addressing specific roadblocks in each type of path. as part of this effort, develop innovative approaches to support research training for clinicians with complementary and integrative health degrees.”the goals of this kl2 administrative supplement program are consistent with the nccih strategic plan. this kl2 administrative supplement program encourages the formation of interdisciplinary research teams with the required expertise to conduct high-quality studies. the nccih-supported kl2 scholars will become members of a large collaborative research network prepared to tackle the biomedical challenges of today and tomorrow to improve human health.nccih programmatic requirements pds/pis of active ctsa kl2 programs will recruit and nominate scholars for nccih kl2 administrative supplement awards. the applications are expected to propose:the research experience supported under this nosi is intended to enhance the scholar’s transition to an independent research career as a principal investigator or subject matter expert in a collaborative team science approach. in addition, this program is intended to provide a foundation for subsequent grant applications and support for continued research training, or for independent research funding from nih or other sources. kl2 pd(s)/pi(s) should encourage scholars to submit applications for fellowships, individual career development awards, research grants, and other sources of independent support before the supplement period ends.scholar candidates may propose to conduct basic, mechanistic, clinical, or observational research on a natural product or mind and body approach. prospective scholars are encouraged to justify how this mentored research experience will lead to subsequent grant applications. the proposed kl2 supported research should be designed to include pilot studies, formative work, feasibility studies, observational studies, and/or secondary analyses, as appropriate. nccih will not support applications proposing to examine efficacy, effectiveness, or “preliminary efficacy” through this funding opportunity.kl2 pd(s)/pi(s) and potential scholars are strongly encouraged to contact nccih program staff to discuss their concepts prior to submitting their application.the following topics are considered of high programmatic priority for natural products research:the following topics are considered of high programmatic priority for mind and body research. high-priority mind and body or integrative approaches include spinal manipulation or mobilization, massage, tai chi, qi gong, yoga, acupuncture, hypnosis, guided imagery, progressive relaxation, meditation, biofeedback, mindfulness techniques, or complex approaches like music- and art-based therapies:nccih intends to commit $500,000 per fiscal year to fund kl2 supplement applications.application and submission informationapplications for this initiative must be submitted using the following opportunity or its subsequent reissued equivalent.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide and pa-18-591 must be followed, with the following additions:instructions for electronic application submission through grants.gov: use the “apply” button(s) in part i of the pa-18-591 program announcement to access the application forms package posted at grants.gov.when presented with more than one form package, use the form package with competition id “forms-e-adminsupp-k12-kl2-km1-d43.”prepare applications using the sf424 (r&r) forms associated with the chosen package. please note that some forms marked optional in the application package are required for submission of applications for this announcement. follow all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide to ensure you complete all appropriate required and optional forms, with the following additional guidance:program plan (may not exceed 12 pages):letters of support: attach appropriate letters from all individuals confirming their roles in the proposed supplement program. include a signed letter, on institutional letterhead, that describes the applicant institution’s commitment to the planned proposed research project. the letter should provide assurance that the candidate scholar will be able to devote a minimum of 9 person-months (75 percent of full-time professional effort) to the supplement project. the letter should confirm that the scholar will be supported by the kl2 if the supplement is funded. the letter should also identify the laboratories, centers, and other specialized institutional facilities that will be made available to the scholar for the research project.project/performance site location form: include the primary site where the proposed supplement activities will be performed. if a portion of the proposed supplement activities will be performed at any other site(s), identify the locations in the fields provided.senior/key person form:budget forms: using the r&r budget form, only include funds requested for the additional supplement activities.r&r other project information form, facilities and other resources attachment: describe how the scientific environment in which the career development activities will be done contributes to the probability of the scholar’s success (e.g., institutional support, physical resources, and intellectual rapport). for ctsa program hub training resources, describe the training resources that are available to the scholar.phs human subjects and clinical trials information form: complete this form if the scholar will design and conduct their own independent human subjects research. approval by the reviewing institutional review board is required prior to award. . adherence to all the nih policies for human subjects research must be ensured, if additional human subjects' involvement is planned for the supplement component.awardee-selected projects that involve human subjects research and/or animal research require prior approval by nih prior to initiation. the awardee institution will provide nih/ncats with a written study package. the contents of the study package can be guided by a posted ncats prior approval checklist (https://ctsa.ncats.nih.gov/governance-guidelines/guidelines/prior-approval-of-planned-research-involving-human-subjects/).inquiriesplease direct all inquiries to:lanay m. mudd, ph.d. national center for complementary and integrative health (nccih) telephone: 301-594-9346 email: lanay.mudd@nih.govcarol merchant, m.d., mph national center for advancing translational sciences (ncats) telephone: 301-435-0605 email:merchantc@mail.nih.gov weekly toc for this announcement nih funding opportunities and noticesnote: for help accessing pdf, rtf, ms word, excel, powerpoint, audio or video files, see help downloading files.