AHRQ Health Services Research Dissertation Program (R36)
agency for healthcare research and quality (ahrq)note: the policies, guidelines, terms, and conditions stated in this announcement may differ from those used by the nih. where this funding opportunity announcement (foa) provides specific written guidance that may differ from the general guidance provided in the grant application form, please follow the instructions given in this foa.agency for healthcare research and quality (ahrq)ahrq health services research dissertation program (r36)r36 dissertation awardreissue pa-15-318pa-18-765nonesee section iii. 3. additional information on eligibility. 93.226this announcement represents the continuation of an ahrq program that provides support to individuals who are conducting research undertaken as part of an accredited academic program to qualify for a research doctorate degree.may 2, 2018july 30, 201830 days before application submissionfebruary 1, may 1, august 1, and november 1 annually, beginning august 1, 2018, by 5:00 pm local time of applicant organization.applicants are encouraged to apply early to allow adequate time to make any corrections to errors found in the application during the submission process by the due date.not applicable.generally, four months after receipt date.not applicable.generally, four months after peer review date.may 2, 2023not applicableit is critical that applicants follow the research (r) instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, except where instructed to do otherwise (in this foa or in a notice from the nih guide for grants and contracts). conformance to all requirements (both in the application guide and the foa) is required and strictly enforced. applicants must read and follow all application instructions in the application guide as well as any program-specific instructions noted in section iv, and follow the ahrq grants policy and guidance found on the ahrq website at http://www.ahrq.gov/funding/policies/foaguidance/index.html. when the program-specific instructions deviate from those in the application guide, follow the program-specific instructions.applications that do not comply with these instructions may be delayed or not accepted for review.there are several options available to submit your application through grants.gov to nih and department of health and human services partners. you must use one of these submission options to access the application forms for this opportunity.part 1. overview information part 2. full text of the announcementsection i. funding opportunity description section ii. award information section iii. eligibility information section iv. application and submission information section v. application review information section vi. award administration information section vii. agency contacts section viii. other informationresearch objectivesapplications for dissertation research grants must be responsive to ahrq’s mission, which is to produce evidence to make health care safer, higher quality, more accessible, equitable, and affordable, and to work with the u.s. department of health and human services (hhs) and other partners to make sure that the evidence is understood and used.ahrq welcomes any area of health services research relevant to ahrq's priority areas as a dissertation project topic. ahrq's priority areas of focus are: candidates are encouraged to address health services research issues critical to ahrq priority populations, including: individuals living in inner city or rural (including frontier) areas; low-income and minority groups; women, children, the elderly; and individuals with special health care needs, including those with disabilities and those who need chronic or end-of-life health care.candidates must conduct dissertation projects which focus on health care delivery in the united states. ahrq will not accept international health care research projects.this foa describes the procedures and criteria for the ahrq dissertation grant program. it updates and supersedes the ahrq grants for health services research dissertation ahrq pa-15-318, published august 4, 2015.see section viii. other information for award authorities and regulations.grant: a support mechanism providing money, property, or both to an eligible entity to carry out an approved project or activity.new resubmissionthe oer glossary and the sf424 (r&r) application guide provide details on these application types.not applicable.the number of awards is contingent upon ahrq appropriations and the submission of a sufficient number of meritorious applications.future year amounts will depend on annual appropriations.the direct costs awarded to a grant under this foa will not exceed $40,000 for the entire project period. facilities and administrative (f&a) costs (i.e., overhead or indirect costs) are limited to 8% of modified total direct costs.individuals supported under national research service award (nrsa) mechanisms, including t32, f31 and f32 research training awards are eligible to apply for an ahrq r36 dissertation award; however, such individuals may only request up to $20,000 direct costs for additional, non-salary expenses, and no funds may be requested for salary support.funds may be used only for those expenses that are directly related and necessary to the project and must be expended in compliance with applicable uniform administrative requirements, cost principles, and audit requirements for hhs awards (45 cfr part 75) and the hhs grants policy statement.the project period must be no less than 9 months and may not exceed 17 months. these projects are being funded pursuant to 42 u.s.c. 299a(b)(1), which provides that ahrq may provide training grants in the field of health services research.all applications submitted and ahrq grants made in response to this foa are subject to 45 cfr part 75 (uniform administrative requirements, cost principles and audit requirements for hhs awards; http://www.ecfr.gov/cgi-bin/text-idx?node=pt45.1.75), the hhs grants policy statement (see http://www.ahrq.gov/funding/policies/hhspolicy/index.html), and the terms and conditions set forth in the notice of award.higher education institutionsthe following types of higher education institutions are always encouraged to apply for ahrq support as public or private institutions of higher education:nonprofits other than institutions of higher educationgovernments eligible agencies of the federal governmentotherahrq’s authorizing legislation does not allow for-profit organizations to be eligible to lead applications under this research mechanism. because the purpose of this program is to improve healthcare in the united states, foreign institutions are not eligible to lead applications submitted under this funding opportunity announcement. applications submitted by for-profit organizations or foreign institutions will not be reviewed. organizations described in section 501(c) 4 of the internal revenue code that engage in lobbying are not eligible.for dissertation grants, the applicant organization must be an accredited doctoral granting institution at which the student is registered and matriculating. individuals cannot apply directly.non-domestic (non-u.s.) entities (foreign institutions) are not eligible to apply. non-domestic (non-u.s.) components of u.s. organizations are not eligible to apply.applicant organizationsapplicant organizations must complete and maintain the following registrations as described in the sf 424 (r&r) application guide to be eligible to apply for or receive an award. all registrations must be completed prior to the application being submitted. registration can take 6 weeks or more, so applicants should begin the registration process as soon as possible.program directors/principal investigators (pd/pi)the pd/pi must have an era commons account. the pd/pi should work with his/her organizational officials to either create a new account or to affiliate their existing account with the applicant organization in era commons. if the pd/pi is also the organizational signing official, they must have two distinct era commons accounts, one for each role. obtaining an era commons account can take up to 2 weeks.any individual(s) at the dissertation stage of training with the skills, knowledge, and resources necessary to carry out the proposed research as the program director/principal investigator (pd/pi) is invited to work with his/her organization to develop an application for support. individuals from underrepresented racial and ethnic groups as well as individuals with disabilities are always encouraged to apply for ahrq support.the pd/pi is also referred to in this pa as a "candidate."only one pd/pi may be designated on the application.candidates are eligible to apply for this award provided that they:information for candidates with active national research service award (nrsa) support:as noted above, individuals supported under nrsa mechanisms, including t32, f31 and f32 research training awards are eligible to apply for an ahrq dissertation award.the request for support must satisfy the applicant's institutional policies and the application must include a statement describing the expenses requested under the ahrq r36 dissertation grant program which are not supported through the active nrsa training grant or fellowship. however, individuals may only request up to $20,000 direct costs for additional, non-salary expenses; no funds may be requested for salary, fringe benefit, or stipend support during the period supported by the nrsa mechanism.this foa does not require cost sharing.while there is no cost sharing requirement included in this rfa, ahrq welcomes applicant institutions, including any collaborating institutions, to devote resources to this effort. an indication of institutional support from the applicant and its collaborators indicates a greater potential of success and sustainability of the project. examples of institutional support would include: donated equipment and space, institutional funded staff time and effort, or other resource investments. applicant institutions should indicate institutional support by outlining the specific contributions to the project and providing assurances that their organization and any collaborators are committed to providing these funds and resources to the project. this information can be included at the end of the budget justification section of the application, but institutional support dollars are not to be shown/included in the detailed budget request.applicant organizations may submit more than one application, provided that each application is scientifically distinct.ahrq will not accept duplicate or highly overlapping applications under review at the same time. this means that ahrq will not accept:1. requesting an application packagebuttons to access the online assist system or to download application forms are available in part 1 of this foa. see your administrative office for instructions if you plan to use an institutional system-to-system solution.2. content and form of application submissionit is critical that applicants follow the research (r) instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, including supplemental grant application instructions except where instructed in this funding opportunity announcement to do otherwise. conformance to the requirements in the application guide is required and strictly enforced. applications that are out of compliance with these instructions may be delayed or not accepted for review.for information on application submission and receipt, visit frequently asked questions – application guide, electronic submission of grant applications.although a letter of intent is not required, is not binding, and does not enter into the review of a subsequent application, the information that it contains allows ahrq staff to estimate the potential review workload and plan the review.by the date listed in part 1. overview information, prospective applicants are asked to submit a letter of intent that includes the following information:the letter of intent should be sent to:amy chanlongbutra, sc.d., mph, ches division of research education office of extramural research, education, and priority populations agency for healthcare research and quality telephone: (301) 427-1542 email: amornrat.chanlongbutra@ahrq.hhs.govall page limitations described in the sf424 application guide and the table of page limits must be followed.the following section supplements the instructions found in the sf424 (r&r) application guide and should be used for preparing an application to this foa.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.the dissertation candidate, who must be matriculated in an accredited doctoral program, will be the designated pd/pi. the mentor for the pd/pi must be listed as a key person.the only other key persons to be listed are the other members of the dissertation committee. attach a biographical sketch for the pd/pi, mentor, and all other key personnel. it is strongly encouraged that the doctoral dissertation committee include recognized health services researchers with appropriate interdisciplinary or multidisciplinary expertise necessary to fully support the research activities.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.budget component: special instructions for ahrq applicationsahrq is not using the modular grant application and award process. applicants applying for funding from ahrq are to ignore application instructions concerning the modular grant application and award process, and prepare applications using instructions for the research and related budget components of the sf 424 (r&r). applications submitted in the modular format will not be reviewed.the applicant must provide justification for each budget item requested in the detailed budget for the total period of support being requested. include salary, equipment, travel, and other costs as appropriate. the budget component is described further below.allowable costs:stipend/salary compensationthough this is not a nrsa award, stipend/salary compensation can be requested for the candidate up to the current fiscal year nrsa pre-doctoral stipend level (information for the current fiscal year can be found at https://researchtraining.nih.gov/resources/policy-notices). salary must be consistent with the established salary structure at the institution if it were using its own funds to support other staff members of equivalent qualifications, rank, and responsibilities at the institution, therefore the lesser of the institution's established salary structure or the current fiscal year nrsa pre-doctoral stipend level may be requested. fringe benefits can be requested only if the candidate is employed by the applicant organization.candidates who have active nrsa training grants or fellowships may not request stipend/salary support from the dissertation grant while the other source of support is active. these individuals may only request up to $20,000 direct costs for non-salary expenses.salary may not be requested for any personnel other than the candidate.tuition and matriculationcosts associated with dissertation credits and matriculation fees that are required during the course of the grant period. tuition related costs should be itemized in the budget. if requested, health insurance fees should also be listed in the budget, as well as other direct costs associated with completing the dissertation, such as materials, supplies and adp services.data collection/ codingjustifiable costs associated with data collection/coding, such as data purchase, the need for additional data transcription services (other than that provided by the candidate) for qualitative data, survey incentives, or travel costs directly associated with data collection. travel costs associated with data collection should be budgeted separately from any travel costs associated with conference attendance and should not be counted toward the $1,500 limit on scientific meeting/conference travel (see below).scientific meeting/conference travelcandidates can request up to $1,500 in travel costs to attend appropriate scientific meetings or conferences focusing on his/her research topic that take place in the united states.equipment/suppliesgeneral purpose equipment items, such as personal computers, must be separately listed and estimated under equipment costs or under supply costs, depending on the applicant institution's definition of equipment. in particular, proposed computer-related purchases need to be fully justified in terms of not being readily available to the student for the conduct of the research.unallowable costs:specific costs not allowed on dissertation research grants include: salary support for individuals other than the candidate, consultant/consulting costs (including computer and statistical consulting support), alterations/renovations, space rental, contracting or consortium costs, dissertation defense or deposit fees, membership fees, costs associated with faculty/advisor mentor supervision.the above lists of allowable and unallowable costs are not all-inclusive, and the applicant should contact ahrq grants management staff regarding any other items being considered for which there are questions regarding allowability.level of effort:the candidate must devote at least 40 hours per week to the dissertation for a minimum of nine months beginning at the time of award. the requested start date of award must be estimated to begin no less than eight months from the submission date. receipt of additional compensation (e.g., pay) from other sources for performance of work that is distinctly separate from the actual work involved in the conduct of the dissertation is allowable, but cannot exceed a paid level of effort greater than 20 hours per week beginning at the time of award.facilities and administrative costs:facilities and administrative costs (i.e., overhead or indirect costs) are limited to no more than eight percent of modified total direct costs.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed, with the following additional instructions:part of the research strategy must describe any potential outcomes, products and/or impact of the proposed dissertation on policy or practice, as well as dissemination plans, which involve traditional academic as well as nontraditional means of communicating relevant research findings to policymakers or health care delivery personnel. a clear description of the unique contribution of this effort must be included, especially if the research builds upon ongoing or previously conducted work by the principal investigator, or other dissertation committee member/faculty.note: as described in the sf 424 (r&r), the “project summary/abstract” and “project narrative” are separate from the research strategytwo letters are required. (note: these differ in content from the optional cover letter described in the sf424 (r&r) instructions).these letters are uploaded where indicated in the “other research plan sections” of the phs 398 research plan. because only one pdf file is allowed for the letter of support item in the phs research plan component, combine these letters with any other optional letters of support (below) into one file. each letter is limited to a total of two pages.the required letters are:1. a letter from the faculty committee or the university official directly responsible for supervising the dissertation research must be submitted with the grant application. the letter must specifically address the potential of the candidate, as well as the qualifications and experience of the candidate to conduct the study as proposed, both in terms of content and methodological expertise gained from coursework. in addition, the letter must:2. a letter from the candidate which must discuss career goals, background and interest in health services research, the anticipated manner in which the proposed dissertation will contribute to career goals, and the unique relevance of the proposed dissertation to ahrq.the applicant should pay particular attention to the application guide instructions concerning letters of support. letters of support, recommendation, or affirmation, other than those stated above, from any entity or individual not directly participating in the project should not be included.resource sharing plan: individuals are required to comply with the instructions for the resource sharing plans as provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, with the following modification:appendix:only limited appendix materials are allowed.follow all instructions for the appendix as described in the sf424 (r&r) application guide with the following modification:acceptable appendix materials are a copy of the official transcript of the candidate's doctoral program record, to date, and copies of any survey instruments or questionnaires, data collection or interview guides used in the proposed research, if applicable.do not use the appendix to circumvent page limits. follow all instructions for the appendix as described in the sf424 (r&r) application guide. see nih/niosh/ahrq new policy appendix guide located at not-od-18-126when conducting clinical research, follow all instructions for completing planned enrollment reports as described in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.when conducting clinical research, follow all instructions for completing cumulative inclusion enrollment report as described in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.protection of human subjects: a discussion of human subjects protection must be included if the proposed research involves any contact with or data on humans (e.g., patients, providers, administrators), including data obtained from secondary publicly or privately available data sources.this section does not count toward the application page limitations.when involving human subjects research, clinical research, and/or clinical trials (and when applicable, clinical trials research experience) follow all instructions for the phs human subjects and clinical trials information form in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, with the following additional instructions:if you answered "yes" to the question "are human subjects involved?" on the r&r other project information form, you must include at least one human subjects study record using the study record: phs human subjects and clinical trials information form or delayed onset study record.study record: phs human subjects and clinical trials informationall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.delayed onset studyall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.see part 1. section iii.1 for information regarding the requirement for obtaining a unique entity identifier and for completing and maintaining active registrations in system for award management (sam), nato commercial and government entity (ncage) code (if applicable), era commons, and grants.govpart i. overview information contains information about key dates and times. applicants are encouraged to submit applications before the due date to ensure they have time to make any application corrections that might be necessary for successful submission. when a submission date falls on a weekend or federal holiday, the application deadline is automatically extended to the next business day.organizations must submit applications to grants.gov (the online portal to find and apply for grants across all federal agencies). applicants must then complete the submission process by tracking the status of the application in the era commons, nih’s electronic research administration system, which is also utilized by ahrq. ahrq and grants.gov systems check the application against many of the application instructions upon submission. errors must be corrected and a changed/corrected application must be submitted to grants.gov on or before the application due date and time. if a changed/corrected application is submitted after the deadline, the application will be considered late.applicants are responsible for viewing their application before the due date in the era commons to ensure accurate and successful submission.information on the submission process and a definition of on-time submission are provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.this initiative is not subject to intergovernmental review.for efficient grant administration, ahrq grant administration procedures will be used and conducted in accordance with the terms and conditions, cost principles, and other considerations described in the hhs grants policy statement. the grants policy statement can be found at http://www.hhs.gov/sites/default/files/grants/grants/policies-regulations/hhsgps107.pdf.pre-award costs are not allowed.applications must be submitted electronically following the instructions described in the sf424 (r&r) application guide. paper applications will not be accepted.applicants must complete all required registrations before the application due date. section iii. eligibility information contains information about registration.for assistance with your electronic application or for more information on the electronic submission process, visit applying electronically. if you encounter a system issue beyond your control that threatens your ability to complete the submission process on-time, you must follow the guidelines for applicants experiencing system issues. for assistance with application submission, contact the application submission contacts in section vii.important reminders:the pd/pi must include their era commons id in the credential field of the senior/key person profile component of the sf424(r&r) application package. failure to register in the commons and to include a valid pd/pi commons id in the credential field will prevent the successful submission of an electronic application to ahrq. see section iii of this foa for information on registration requirements.the applicant organization must ensure that the duns number it provides on the application is the same number used in the organization’s profile in the era commons and for the system for award management. additional information may be found in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.see more tips for avoiding common errors.institutional review board (irb) approval of human subjects is not required prior to peer review of an application (see https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/notice-files/not-hs-00-003.html). however, initiation of irb review, if necessary or applicable, is strongly encouraged to assure timely commencement of research.although there is no immediate acknowledgement of the receipt of an application, applicants are generally notified of the review and funding assignment within eight (8) weeksapplicants are required to follow the instructions for post-submission materials, as described in the policy not-od-16-130. any instructions provided here are in addition to the instructions in the policy.ahrq supports research, evaluations, and demonstration projects concerning the delivery of health care in inner-city and rural areas (including frontier areas), and health care for priority populations. priority populations include low income groups, minority groups, women, children, the elderly, and individuals with special health care needs, including individuals with disabilities and individuals who need chronic care or end-of-life health care. 42 usc 299(c). women and members of minority groups are included in all ahrq-supported research projects involving human subjects, unless a clear and compelling rationale and justification is provided that inclusion is inappropriate, e.g. because of the lack of connection between the study and the health of women or particular minorities. investigators should review the document entitled, “ahrq policy on the inclusion of priority populations,” which is available at https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/notice-files/not-hs-03-010.html. applicants under this foa should consider and discuss including priority populations in the research design as specified in this notice.investigators should review the document titled ‘ahrq announces new policy for public access to ahrq-funded scientific publications’ which is available at (http://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/notice-files/not-hs-16-008.html). for all research arising from ahrq support, this policy requires that ahrq-funded authors submit an electronic version of the author’s final peer-reviewed accepted manuscript to the national library of medicine's pubmed central (pmc) to be made publicly available within 12 months of the publisher’s date of publication.the precise content of the data-sharing plan will vary, depending on the data being collected and how the investigator is planning to share the data. applicants who are planning to share data should describe briefly the expected schedule for data sharing; the format of the final dataset; the documentation to be provided; whether or not any analytic tools also will be provided; whether or not a data-sharing agreement will be required and, if so, a brief description of such an agreement (including the criteria for deciding who can receive the data and whether or not any conditions will be placed on their use); and the mode of data sharing (e.g., under its own auspices by mailing a disk or posting data on its institutional or personal website or through a data archive or enclave). investigators choosing to share under their own auspices may wish to enter into a data-sharing agreement. references to data sharing may also be appropriate in other sections of the application.the reasonableness of the data sharing plan or the rationale for not sharing research data will be assessed by the reviewers. however, reviewers will not factor the proposed data sharing plan into the determination of scientific merit or the priority score.the ahrq confidentiality statute, 42 usc 299c-3(c), requires that information that is obtained in the course of ahrq supported activities and that identifies individuals or establishments be used only for the purpose for which it was supplied. information that is obtained in the course of ahrq-supported activities and that identifies an individual may be published or released only with the consent of the individual who supplied the information or is described in it. there are civil monetary penalties for violation of the confidentiality provision of the ahrq statute. 42 usc 299c-3(d). in the human subjects section of the application, applicants must describe procedures for ensuring the confidentiality of the identifying information to be collected. the description of the procedures should include a discussion of who will be permitted access to this information, both raw data and machine readable files, and how personal identifiers and other identifying or identifiable data will be restricted and safeguarded. identifiable patient health information collected by grantees under this rfa will also be obtained and managed in accordance with the hipaa privacy rule, 45 cfr parts 160 and 164.the grantee should ensure that computer systems containing confidential data have a level and scope of security that equals or exceeds that established by the hipaa security rules if applicable (see hipaa website in prior paragraph) and that established by the office of management and budget (omb) in omb circular no. a-130, appendix iii - security of federal automated information systems. the applicability and intended means of applying these confidentiality and security standards to subcontractors and vendors, if any, should be addressed in the application.unless otherwise provided in grant awards, ahrq grantees may copyright, or seek patents for, as appropriate, final and interim products and materials developed in whole or in part with ahrq support, including, but not limited to, methodological tools, measures, software with documentation, literature searches, and analyses. such copyrights and patents are subject to a royalty-free, non-exclusive, and irrevocable ahrq license to reproduce, publish, use or disseminate for any purpose consistent with ahrq’s statutory responsibilities and to authorize others to do so for any purpose consistent with ahrq’s statutory responsibilities. in accordance with its legislative dissemination mandate, ahrq purposes may include, subject to statutory confidentiality protections, making project materials, databases, results, and algorithms available for verification or replication by other researchers. in addition, subject to ahrq budget constraints, final products may be made available to the health care community and the public by ahrq or its agents if such distribution would significantly increase access to a product and thereby produce substantial or valuable public health benefits. ordinarily, to accomplish distribution, ahrq publicizes research findings but relies on grantees to publish research results in peer-reviewed journals and to market grant-supported products. ahrq requests that grantees notify the office of communications (oc) when an ahrq-funded research article has been accepted for publication in a peer-reviewed journal. researchers should submit manuscripts that have been accepted for publication in a peer-reviewed journal to journalpublishing@ahrq.hhs.gov at least four to six weeks in advance of the journal’s expected publication date.regulations applicable to ahrq grantees concerning intangible rights and copyright can be found at 45 cfr 75.322. important update: see not-od-18-228 for updated review language for due dates on or after january 25, 2019.the mission of ahrq is to produce evidence to make health care safer, higher quality, more accessible, equitable, and affordable, and to work with the u.s. department of health and human services (hhs) and other partners to make sure that the evidence is understood and used.ahrq's priority areas of focus are:as part of this mission, applications submitted to ahrq to support health services research are evaluated for scientific and technical merit through the ahrq peer review system.applications that are complete and responsive to the foa will be evaluated for scientific and technical merit by an appropriate peer review group convened in accordance with standard ahrq peer review procedures that are described in 42 cfr part 67, subpart a. incomplete and/or non-responsive applications or applications not following instructions given in this foa will not be reviewed. only the review criteria described below will be considered in the review process.administrative criteria: upon receipt, applications will be evaluated for completeness by the center for scientific review, nih, and for responsiveness by ahrq.merit review criteria: merit review criteria, as described below, will be considered in the review process.reviewers will provide an overall impact score to reflect their assessment of the likelihood for the project to exert a sustained, powerful influence on the research field(s) involved, in consideration of the following review criteria and additional review criteria (as applicable for the project proposed).reviewers will consider each of the review criteria below in the determination of scientific merit, and give a separate score for each. an application does not need to be strong in all categories to be judged likely to have major scientific impact. for example, a project that by its nature is not innovative may be essential to advance a field.does the project address an important problem or a critical barrier to progress in the field? is there a strong scientific premise for the project? if the aims of the project are achieved, how will scientific knowledge, technical capability, and/or clinical practice be improved? how will successful completion of the aims change the concepts, methods, technologies, treatments, services, or preventative interventions that drive this field?are the pd/pi and mentor(s) appropriately trained and well suited to the proposed research project? is there evidence that an appropriate level of effort will be devoted by the mentor(s) to ensure the successful completion of the dissertation project? is there evidence that mentor(s) has been adequately prepared to actively work with the pd/pi and has actively worked with the pd/pi to date in the development of the proposed dissertation project? does a viable mentoring plan and/or mentor/pd/pi agreement exist? does the pd/pi demonstrate potential to have a successful career in health services research?is the dissertation project original and innovative? for example: does the project challenge current research or seek to shift clinical practice paradigms; address an innovative hypothesis or critical barrier to progress in the field? does the project develop or employ novel concepts, approaches or methodologies, tools, or technologies for this area? are the conceptual or clinical framework, design, methods, and analyses adequately developed, well-integrated, well-reasoned, and appropriate to the aims of the project? does the candidate acknowledge potential problem areas and consider alternative tactics?if the project involves human subjects and/or clinical research, are the plans to address 1) the protection of human subjects from research risks, and 2) inclusion (or exclusion) of individuals on the basis of sex/gender, race, and ethnicity, as well as the inclusion of ahrq's priority populations?will the scientific environment in which the work will be done contribute to the probability of success? are the institutional support, equipment and other physical resources available to the investigators adequate for the project proposed? will the project benefit from unique features of the scientific environment, subject populations, or collaborative arrangements?as applicable for the project proposed, reviewers will evaluate the following additional items while determining scientific and technical merit, and in providing an overall impact score, but will not give separate scores for these items.for research that involves human subjects but does not involve one of the six categories of research that are exempt under 45 cfr part 46, the committee will evaluate the justification for involvement of human subjects and the proposed protections from research risk relating to their participation according to the following five review criteria: 1) risk to subjects, 2) adequacy of protection against risks, 3) potential benefits to the subjects and others, 4) importance of the knowledge to be gained, and 5) data and safety monitoring for clinical trials.for research that involves human subjects and meets the criteria for one or more of the six categories of research that are exempt under 45 cfr part 46, the committee will evaluate: 1) the justification for the exemption, 2) human subjects involvement and characteristics, and 3) sources of materials. for additional information on review of the human subjects section, please refer to the guidelines for the review of human subjects.reviewers will assess how well the application addresses the purpose and objectives of this foa. how responsive is the application to the special eligibility criteria, including the project requirements, noted in the foa?the committee will evaluate whether the proposed budget is reasonable, and whether the requested period of support is appropriate in relation to the proposed research.reviewers will assess the adequacy of plans to address the needs of both genders, racial and ethnic minorities (and subgroups). reviewers will assess the adequacy of attention to ahrq priority populations (see above discussion on priority populations in section iv.7 “other submission requirements”).for resubmissions, the committee will evaluate the application as now presented, taking into consideration the responses to comments from the previous scientific review group and changes made to the project.not applicable.not applicable.as applicable for the project proposed, reviewers will consider each of the following items, but will not give scores for these items, and should not consider them in providing an overall impact score. not applicable.applications will be evaluated for scientific and technical merit by an appropriate scientific review group convened by ahrq in accordance with the stated review criteria. assignment to a scientific review group will be shown in the era commonsas part of the scientific peer review, all applications:applications will compete for available funds with all other recommended applications submitted in response to this foa.the following will be considered in making funding decisions:after the peer review of the application is completed, the pd/pi will be able to access his or her summary statement (written critique) via the era commons. refer to part 1 for dates for peer review, advisory council review, and earliest start date. information regarding the disposition of applications is available in the hhs grants policy statement (see https://www.ahrq.gov/funding/policies/hhspolicy/index.html).after the peer review of the application is completed, the pd/pi will be able to access his or her summary statement (written critique) via the era commons.if the application is under consideration for funding, ahrq will request "just-in-time" information from the applicant. just-in-time information generally consists of information on other support, any additional information necessary to address administrative and budgetary issues, verification of dissertation committee's approval of the candidate's dissertation proposal, and certification of irb approval of the project's proposed use of human subjects. for details regarding irb approval, applicants may refer to the "ahrq revised policy for institutional review board (irb) review of human subjects protocols in grant applications" (https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/notice-files/not-hs-00-003.html).if all administrative and programmatic issues are resolved, a formal notification in the form of a notice of award (noa) will be provided to the applicant organization for successful applications. the noa signed by the ahrq grants management officer is the authorizing document and will be sent via email to the grantee’s business official. awardees must comply with any funding restrictions described in section iv.6. funding restrictions. selection of an application for award is not an authorization to begin performance. pre-award costs are not allowed. any application awarded in response to this foa will be subject to the duns, sam registration, and transparency act requirements as noted on the ahrq web site at https://www.ahrq.gov/funding/grant-mgmt/index.html.the dissertation award terminates once the requirements for the doctoral degree are met. should an award terminate before the reflected project period end date, the grantee is required to submit a letter to the ahrq grants management specialist, countersigned by an authorized institutional official, indicating the expected end date. unexpended funds are to be reported on the final federal financial report (ffr) and returned to the ahrq within 90 days of the project period end date.all ahrq grant and cooperative agreement awards are subject to hhs’s “uniform administrative requirements, cost principles, and audit requirements for hhs awards,” (http://www.ecfr.gov/cgi-bin/text-idx?node=pt45.1.75), the hhs grants policy statement (see http://www.ahrq.gov/funding/policies/hhspolicy/index.html), and the terms and conditions set forth in the notice of award (noa). as necessary, additional terms and conditions will be incorporated into the noa.a standard term and condition of award will be included in the notice of award (noa) that states: “in any grant-related activity in which family, marital, or household consideration are, by statute or regulation, relevant for purposes of determining beneficiary eligibility or participation, grantees must treat same-sex spouses, marriages, and households on the same terms as opposite-sex spouses, marriages, and households, respectively. by “same-sex spouses,” hhs means individuals of the same sex who have entered into marriages that are valid in the jurisdiction where performed, including any of the 50 states, the district of columbia, or a u.s. territory or in a foreign country, regardless of whether or not the couple resides in a jurisdiction that recognizes same-sex marriage. by “same-sex marriages,” hhs means marriages between two individuals validly entered into in the jurisdiction where performed, including any of the 50 states, the district of columbia, or a u.s. territory or in a foreign country, regardless of whether or not the couple resides in a jurisdiction that recognizes same-sex marriage. by “marriage,” hhs does not mean registered domestic partnerships, civil unions or similar formal relationships recognized under the law of the jurisdiction of celebration as something other than a marriage.”all applicants will be subject to a term and condition that applies the terms of 48 cfr section 3.908 to the award, and requires that grantees inform their employees in writing of employee whistleblower rights and protections under 41u.s.c. 4712 in the predominant native language of the workforce.recipients of federal financial assistance (ffa) from hhs must administer their programs in compliance with federal civil rights law. this means that recipients of hhs funds must ensure equal access to their programs without regard to a person’s race, color, national origin, disability, age and, in some circumstances, sex and religion. this includes ensuring your programs are accessible to persons with limited english proficiency. hhs recognizes that research projects are often limited in scope for many reasons that are nondiscriminatory, such as the principal investigator’s scientific interest, funding limitations, recruitment requirements, and other considerations. thus, criteria in research protocols that target or exclude certain populations are warranted where nondiscriminatory justifications establish that such criteria are appropriate with respect to the health or safety of the subjects, the scientific study design, or the purpose of the research.for additional guidance regarding how the provisions apply to ahrq grant programs, please contact the scientific/research contact that is identified in section vii under agency contacts of this foa. hhs provides general guidance to recipients of ffa on meeting their legal obligation to take reasonable steps to provide meaningful access to their programs by persons with limited english proficiency. please see https://www.hhs.gov/civil-rights/for-individuals/special-topics/limited-english-proficiency/fact-sheet-guidance/index.html. the hhs office for civil rights also provides guidance on complying with civil rights laws enforced by hhs. please see http://www.hhs.gov/ocr/civilrights/understanding/section1557/index.html; and https://www.hhs.gov/civil-rights/index.html recipients of ffa also have specific legal obligations for serving qualified individuals with disabilities. please see https://www.hhs.gov/civil-rights/for-individuals/disability/. l. please contact the hhs office for civil rights for more information about obligations and prohibitions under federal civil rights laws at https://www.hhs.gov/ocr/about-us/contact-us/index.html o or call 1-800-368-1019 or tdd 1-800-537-7697. also note it is an hhs departmental goal to ensure access to quality, culturally competent care, including long-term services and supports, for vulnerable populations.for further guidance on providing culturally and linguistically appropriate services, recipients should review the national standards for culturally and linguistically appropriate services in health and health care at http://minorityhealth.hhs.gov/omh/browse.aspx?lvl=2&lvlid=53.in accordance with the statutory provisions contained in section 872 of the duncan hunter national defense authorization act of fiscal year 2009 (public law 110-417), ahrq awards will be subject to the federal awardee performance and integrity information system (fapiis) requirements. fapiis requires federal award making officials to review and consider information about an applicant in the designated integrity and performance system (currently fapiis) prior to making an award. an applicant, at its option, may review information in the designated integrity and performance systems accessible through fapiis and comment on any information about itself that a federal agency previously entered and is currently in fapiis. the federal awarding agency will consider any comments by the applicant, in addition to other information in fapiis, in making a judgment about the applicant’s integrity, business ethics, and record of performance under federal awards when completing the review of risk posed by applicants as described in 45 cfr part 75.205 “federal awarding agency review of risk posed by applicants.” this provision will apply to all ahrq grants and cooperative agreements except fellowships.cooperative agreement terms and conditions of awardnot applicablewhen multiple years are involved, awardees will be required to submit the research performance progress report (rppr) annually unless specified otherwise in the terms of the award.grantees are required to submit expenditure data on the federal financial report (ffr; sf 425) annually.for details regarding annual progress report submission, refer to https://www.ahrq.gov/funding/grant-mgmt/noncomp.html. if instructions on the ahrq website are different from the rppr instructions, follow the instructions on the ahrq website. annual progress reports are due 3 months before the anniversary of the award. in addition to the annual progress report, recipients may be required to submit quarterly progress reports to ahrq. if applicable, detailed instructions on additional reporting requirements will be provided with the grant award.expenditure data is to be reported on the federal financial report (ffr; sf 425). ahrq requires annual financial expenditure reports for all grant programs as described in the hhs grants policy statement (https://www.ahrq.gov/funding/policies/hhspolicy/index.html). ahrq implementation of the ffr retains a financial reporting period that coincides with the budget period of a particular project. however, the due date for annual ffrs is 90 days after the end of the calendar quarter in which the budget period ends. for example, if the budget period ends 4/30/2018, the annual ffr is due 9/30/2018 (90 days after the end of the calendar quarter of 6/30/2018).a final progress report, final federal financial report, and final invention statement are required when an award ends. all final reports are due within 90 days of the project period end date. for further details regarding grant closeout requirements, refer https://www.ahrq.gov/funding/grant-mgmt/closeout.html.the federal funding accountability and transparency act of 2006 (transparency act), includes a requirement for awardees of federal grants to report information about first-tier subawards and executive compensation under federal assistance awards issued in fy2011 or later. all awardees of applicable ahrq grants and cooperative agreements are required to report to the federal subaward reporting system (fsrs) available at www.fsrs.gov on all subawards over $25,000. see the hhs grants policy statement (https://www.ahrq.gov/funding/policies/hhspolicy/index.html) for additional information on this reporting requirement.in accordance with the regulatory requirements provided at 45 cfr 75.113 and appendix xii to 45 cfr part 75, recipients that have currently active federal grants, cooperative agreements, and procurement contracts from all federal awarding agencies with a cumulative total value greater than $10,000,000 for any period of time during the period of performance of a federal award, must report and maintain the currency of information reported in the system for award management (sam) about civil, criminal, and administrative proceedings in connection with the award or performance of a federal award that reached final disposition within the most recent five-year period. the recipient must also make semiannual disclosures regarding such proceedings. proceedings information will be made publicly available in the designated integrity and performance system (currently fapiis). this is a statutory requirement under section 872 of public law 110-417, as amended (41 u.s.c. 2313). as required by section 3010 of public law 111-212, all information posted in the designated integrity and performance system on or after april 15, 2011, except past performance reviews required for federal procurement contracts, will be publicly available. full reporting requirements and procedures are found in appendix xii to 45 cfr part 75 – award term and conditions for recipient integrity and performance matters.we encourage inquiries concerning this funding opportunity and welcome the opportunity to answer questions from potential applicants.era service desk (questions regarding assist, era commons registration, submitting and tracking an application, documenting system problems that threaten submission by the due date, post submission issues) finding help online: http://grants.nih.gov/support/ (preferred method of contact) telephone: 301-402-7469 or 866-504-9552 (toll free)grants.gov customer support (questions regarding grants.gov registration and submission, downloading forms and application packages) contact center telephone: 800-518-4726 email: support@grants.govamy chanlongbutra, sc.d., mph, ches division of research education office of extramural research, education, and priority populations agency for healthcare research and quality telephone: (301) 427-1542 email: amornrat.chanlongbutra@ahrq.hhs.govnicholas kenney, ph.d. agency for healthcare research and quality office of extramural research, education and priority populations division of scientific review telephone: (301) 427-1869 email: nicholas.kenney@ahrq.hhs.govanna caponiti division of grants management office of management services agency for healthcare research and quality telephone: 301-427-1402 email: anna.caponiti@ahrq.hhs.govrecently issued ahrq policy notices may affect your application submission. a full list of policy notices published by ahrq is provided in the nih guide for grants and contracts. notices can also be found at ahrq grants policy notices.this program is described in the catalog of federal domestic assistance at http://www.cfda.gov/ and is not subject to the intergovernmental review requirements of executive order 12372 or health systems agency review. awards are made under the authority of 42 usc 299 et seq., and in accordance with the omb uniform grant guidance and other referenced applicable statutes and regulations. all awards are subject to the terms and conditions, cost principles, and other considerations described in the hhs grants policy statement. the hhs grants policy statement can be found at http://www.ahrq.gov/fund/hhspolicy.htm. weekly toc for this announcement nih funding opportunities and noticesnote: for help accessing pdf, rtf, ms word, excel, powerpoint, audio or video files, see help downloading files.