Administrative Supplements to Existing NIH Grants and Cooperative Agreements (Parent Admin Supp Clinical Trial Optional)
https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/pa-files/PA-20-272.html
national institutes of health (nih)national cancer institute (nci) national eye institute (nei) national heart, lung, and blood institute (nhlbi) national human genome research institute (nhgri) national institute on aging (nia) national institute on alcohol abuse and alcoholism (niaaa) national institute of allergy and infectious diseases (niaid) national institute of arthritis and musculoskeletal and skin diseases (niams) national institute of biomedical imaging and bioengineering (nibib) eunice kennedy shriver national institute of child health and human development (nichd) national institute on deafness and other communication disorders (nidcd) national institute of dental and craniofacial research (nidcr) national institute of diabetes and digestive and kidney diseases (niddk) national institute on drug abuse (nida) national institute of environmental health sciences (niehs) national institute of general medical sciences (nigms) national institute of mental health (nimh) national institute of neurological disorders and stroke (ninds) national institute of nursing research (ninr) national institute on minority health and health disparities (nimhd) national library of medicine (nlm) fogarty international center (fic) national center for complementary and integrative health (nccih)national center for advancing translational sciences (ncats)division of program coordination, planning and strategic initiatives, office of research infrastructure programs (orip) office of strategic coordination (common fund)all applications to this funding opportunity announcement should fall within the mission of the institutes/centers listed above. the following nih offices may co-fund applications assigned to those institutes/centers.division of program coordination, planning and strategic initiatives, office of disease prevention (odp)office of behavioral and social sciences research (obssr) office of dietary supplements (ods) office of research on women’s health (orwh)administrative supplements to existing nih grants and cooperative agreements (parent admin supp clinical trial optional)administrative supplementadditional funds may be awarded as supplements to parent awards for all activity codes.reissue of pa-18-591 see notices of special interest associated with this funding opportunityapril 4, 2023 - nhlbi notice of availability of frequently asked questions (faqs) for not-hl-23-078 and not-hl-23-079 (carol act). see notice not-hl-23-085not-od-23-043 - notice of early termination of not-od-23-029 notice of special interest (nosi): research on gender measurement (admin supp clinical trial optional)not-od-23-012 reminder: forms-h grant application forms and instructions must be used for due dates on or after january 25, 2023 - new grant application instructions now available not-od-22-190 - adjustments to nih and ahrq grant application due dates between september 22 and september 30, 2022 see notices of special interest related to this funding opportunitypa-20-272nonesee section iii. 3. additional information on eligibility. 93.989, 93.350, 93.393, 93.394, 93.395, 93.396, 93.399, 93.867, 93.172, 93.233, 93.837, 93.838, 93.839, 93.840, 93.866, 93.273, 93.855, 93.846, 93.286, 93.847, 93.113, 93.142, 93.143, 93.859, 93.242, 93.307, 93.853, 93.361, 93.879, 93.351, 93.313, 93.310 the national institutes of health (nih) hereby notify program directors/principal investigators (pd(s)/pi(s)) holding specific types of nih research grants listed in the full funding opportunity announcement (foa) that funds may be available for administrative supplements to meet increased costs that are within the scope of the approved award, but were unforeseen when the new or renewal application or grant progress report for non-competing continuation support was submitted. applications for administrative supplements are considered prior approval requests (as described in section 8.1.2.11 of the nih grants policy statement) and will be routed directly to the grants management officer of the parent award.although requests for administrative supplements may be submitted through this foa, there is no guarantee that funds are available from the awarding ic or for any specific grant. all applicants are encouraged to discuss potential requests with the awarding ic. additionally, prior to submission, applicants must review the awarding ic's web site to ensure they meet the ic's requirements. a list of those web sites is available at https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/admin_supp/index.htm.october 9, 2020october 9, 2020not applicabledue dates may vary by awarding ic. see the awarding ic's web site or applicable notice of special interest (nosi) for appropriate application due dates. applicants may also contact their respective awarding ic.applicants are encouraged to apply early to allow adequate time to make any corrections to errors found in the application during the submission process by the due date.not applicablenot applicablenot applicableearliest start dates may vary by awarding ic. see the awarding ic's web site or applicable notice of special interest (nosi) for any applicable application due dates.october 8, 2023not applicableit is critical that applicants follow the instructions in the application guide (sf424 (r&r) application guide, as appropriate) except where instructed to do otherwise (in this foa or in a notice from the nih guide for grants and contracts). conformance to all requirements (both in the application guide and the foa) is required and strictly enforced. applicants must read and follow all application instructions in the application guide as well as any program-specific instructions noted in section iv. when the program-specific instructions deviate from those in the application guide, follow the program-specific instructions. applications that do not comply with these instructions may be delayed or not accepted for review.there are several options available to submit your application through grants.gov to nih and department of health and human services partners. you must use one of these submission options to access the application forms for this opportunity.part 1. overview information part 2. full text of the announcement section i. funding opportunity description section ii. award information section iii. eligibility information section iv. application and submission information section v. application review information section vi. award administration information section vii. agency contacts section viii. other informationsee section viii. other information for award authorities and regulations.the funding instrument will be the same as the parent award.grant: a support mechanism providing money, property, or both to an eligible entity to carry out an approved project or activity.cooperative agreement: a support mechanism used when there will be substantial federal scientific or programmatic involvement. substantial involvement means that, after award, nih scientific or program staff will assist, guide, coordinate, or participate in project activities. see section vi.2 for additional information about the substantial involvement for this foa.other: a mechanism that is not a grant or cooperative agreement. examples include access to research resources or pre-applications.non-competing administrative supplementsoptional: accepting applications that either propose or do not propose clinical trial(s). administrative supplement applications may not propose changes to the overall human subjects or clinical trial designation of the award.need help determining whether you are doing a clinical trial?the number of awards is contingent upon nih appropriations and the submission of a sufficient number of meritorious applications.application budgets are limited to no more than the amount of the current parent award and must reflect the actual needs of the proposed project.the funding mechanism being used to support this program, administrative supplements, can be used to cover cost increases that are associated with achieving certain new research objectives, as long as the research objectives are within the original scope of the peer reviewed and approved project, or the cost increases are for unanticipated expenses within the original scope of the project. any cost increases need to result from making modifications to the project that would increase or preserve the overall impact of the project consistent with its originally approved objectives and purposes.the project and budget periods must be within the currently approved project period for the existing parent award.nih grants policies as described in the nih grants policy statement will apply to the applications submitted and awards made from this foa.all organizations administering an eligible parent award may apply for a supplement under this announcement.higher education institutionsthe following types of higher education institutions are always encouraged to apply for nih support as public or private institutions of higher education:nonprofits other than institutions of higher educationfor-profit organizationsgovernmentsotherthis announcement is for supplements to existing projects. to be eligible, the parent award must be active and the research proposed in the supplement must be accomplished within the competitive segment. the proposed supplement must be to provide for an increase in costs due to unforeseen circumstances. all additional costs must be within the scope of the peer reviewed and approved project.important: the research proposed by the nih grantee in the supplement application must be within the original scope of the nih-supported grant project.non-domestic (non-u.s.) entities (foreign institutions) are eligible to apply. non-domestic (non-u.s.) components of u.s. organizations are eligible to apply. foreign components, as defined in the nih grants policy statement, are allowed.applicant organizationsapplicant organizations must complete and maintain the following registrations as described in the sf 424 (r&r) application guide to be eligible to apply for or receive an award. since administrative supplements are made against active grants and cooperative agreements, many of these registrations may already be in place. all registrations must be completed prior to the application being submitted. registration can take 6 weeks or more, so applicants should begin the registration process as soon as possible. the nih policy on late submission of grant applications states that failure to complete registrations in advance of a due date is not a valid reason for a late submission.program directors/principal investigators (pd(s)/pi(s))all pd(s)/pi(s) must have an era commons account. pd(s)/pi(s) should work with their organizational officials to either create a new account or to affiliate their existing account with the applicant organization in era commons.if the pd/pi is also the organizational signing official, they must have two distinct era commons accounts, one for each role. obtaining an era commons account can take up to 2 weeks.individual(s) must hold an active grant or cooperative agreement, and the research proposed in the supplement must be accomplished within the competitive segment of the active award. individuals are encouraged to work with their organizations to develop applications for support. for supplements to parent awards that include multiple pds/pis, the supplement may be requested by any or all of the pds/pis (in accordance with the existing leadership plan) and submitted by the awardee institution of the parent award. do not use this administrative supplement application to add, delete, or change the pds/pis listed on the parent award. visit the multiple program director/principal investigator policy in the sf424 (r&r) application guide for more information.this foa does not require cost sharing as defined in the nih grants policy statement.applicant organizations may submit more than one application, provided that each is sufficiently distinct from any other administrative supplement currently under consideration by the awarding nih institute or center.since applications to this announcement will only receive administrative review by the awarding institute or center, and will not receive a peer review, the nih policy on resubmissions will not apply. however, applications not accepted by the institute or center for review, or not funded by the institute or center, should not be submitted again without either responding to any written concerns or contacting the awarding institute or center for instructions.applicants must prepare applications using current forms in accordance with the application guide.the application forms package specific to this opportunity must be accessed through assist, grants.gov workspace or an institutional system-to-system solution. links to apply using assist or grants.gov workspace are available in part 1 of this foa. see your administrative office for instructions if you plan to use an institutional system-to-system solution.all forms must be completed for the supplemental activities only and must not reflect funding or activities for the previously awarded parent award.it is critical that applicants follow the instructions for their submission option (sf424 (r&r) application guide, as appropriate) except where instructed in this funding opportunity announcement to do otherwise. conformance to documented requirements is required and strictly enforced. applications that are out of compliance with these instructions may be delayed or not accepted for review.all page limitations applicable to the parent award as described in the application guide and the table of page limits for the activity code of the parent award must be followed, except where instructed in a notice of special interest (nosi) to do otherwise.administrative supplement requests must be submitted through grants.gov using electronic submission processes.instructions for electronic application submission through grants.govuse the “apply” button(s) in part i of this announcement to access the application forms package posted at grants.gov. if presented with more than one form package, use the competition id and competition titles provided to determine the most appropriate application forms package for your situation. administrative supplement requests for multi-project activity codes must be submitted electronically using a single-project application form package.prepare applications using the sf424 (r&r) forms associated with the chosen package. please note that some forms marked optional in the application package are required for submission of applications for this announcement. follow all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide to ensure you complete all appropriate required and optional forms, with the following additional guidance:foreign (non-u.s.) institutions must follow policies described in the nih grants policy statement, and procedures for foreign institutions described throughout the application guide.see part 1. section iii.1 for information regarding the requirement for obtaining a unique entity identifier and for completing and maintaining active registrations in system for award management (sam), nato commercial and government entity (ncage) code (if applicable), era commons, and grants.gov.part i. overview information contains information about key dates and times. applicants are encouraged to submit electronic applications before the due date to ensure they have time to make any application corrections that might be necessary for successful submission. when a submission date falls on a weekend or federal holiday, the application deadline is automatically extended to the next business day.applicants are responsible for viewing their electronic application before the due date in the era commons to ensure accurate and successful submission.for electronic application submission, information on the submission process and a definition of on-time submission are provided in the sf424(r&r) application guide.this initiative is not subject to intergovernmental review.all nih awards are subject to the terms and conditions, cost principles, and other considerations described in the nih grants policy statement.pre-award costs are allowable only as described in the nih grants policy statement.applications must be submitted using the instructions specified above.applicants must complete all required registrations prior to submission. section iii. eligibility information contains information about registration.for assistance with your electronic application or for more information on the electronic submission process, visit how to apply – application guide. if you encounter a system issue beyond your control that threatens your ability to complete the submission process on-time, you must follow the dealing with system issues guidance. for assistance with application submission contact the application submission contacts in section vii.important reminders: for applications submitted electronically on the sf424 (r&r) application forms, all pd(s)/pi(s) must include their era commons id in the credential field of the senior/key person profile form of the sf 424(r&r) application package. failure to register in the commons and to include a valid pd/pi commons id in the credential field will prevent the successful submission of an electronic application to nih.the applicant organization must ensure that the duns number it provides on the application is the same number used in the organization’s profile in the era commons and for the (sam). additional information may be found in the application guide.not applicableadministrative supplements do not receive peer review. instead, the administrative criteria described below, and/or in an applicable notice of special interest (nosi), will be considered in the administrative evaluation process. .the staff of the nih awarding component will evaluate requests for a supplement to determine its overall merit. the following general criteria will be used:budget and period of supportnih staff will consider whether the budget and the requested period of support are fully justified and reasonable in relation to the proposed research.overall impactnih staff will consider the ability of the proposed supplement activities to increase or preserve the parent award’s overall impact within the original scope of award:in addition, each of the following criteria will be evaluated as applicable for the proposed supplement.for research that involves human subjects but does not involve one of the categories of research that are exempt under 45 cfr part 46, nih staff will evaluate the justification for involvement of human subjects and the proposed protections from research risk relating to their participation according to the following five review criteria: 1) risk to subjects, 2) adequacy of protection against risks, 3) potential benefits to the subjects and others, 4) importance of the knowledge to be gained, and 5) data and safety monitoring for clinical trials.for research that involves human subjects and meets the criteria for one or more of the categories of research that are exempt under 45 cfr part 46, nih staff will evaluate: 1) the justification for the exemption, 2) human subjects involvement and characteristics, and 3) sources of materials. for additional information on review of the human subjects section, please refer to the guidelines for the review of human subjects.when the proposed project involves human subjects and/or nih-defined clinical research, the committee will evaluate the proposed plans for the inclusion (or exclusion) of individuals on the basis of sex/gender, race, and ethnicity, as well as the inclusion (or exclusion) of individuals of all ages (including children and older adults) to determine if it is justified in terms of the scientific goals and research strategy proposed.nih staff will evaluate the involvement of live vertebrate animals as part of the scientific assessment according to the following five points: (1) description of proposed procedures involving animals, including species, strains, ages, sex, and total number to be used; (2) justifications for the use of animals versus alternative models and for the appropriateness of the species proposed; (3) interventions to minimize discomfort, distress, pain and injury; and (4) justification for euthanasia method if not consistent with the avma guidelines for the euthanasia of animals. reviewers will assess the use of chimpanzees as they would any other application proposing the use of vertebrate animals. for additional information on review of the vertebrate animals section, please refer to the worksheet for review of the vertebrate animal section.nih staff will assess whether materials or procedures proposed are potentially hazardous to research personnel and/or the environment, and if needed, determine whether adequate protection is proposed.administrative supplement requests will undergo an administrative evaluation by nih staff, but not a full peer review. applications submitted for this funding opportunity will be assigned to the awarding component for the parent award and will be administratively evaluated using the criteria shown above.not applicablea formal notification in the form of a notice of award (noa) will be provided to the applicant organization for successful applications. this may be as an noa for the supplemental activities only; alternatively, it may be as either a revision to the current year noa or included as part of a future year noa. the noa signed by the grants management officer is the authorizing document and will be sent via email to the grantee’s business official.awardees must comply with any funding restrictions described in section iv.5. funding restrictions. selection of an application for award is not an authorization to begin performance. any costs incurred before receipt of the noa are at the recipient's risk. these costs may be reimbursed only to the extent considered allowable pre-award costs.any application awarded in response to this foa will be subject to terms and conditions found on the award conditions and information for nih grants website. this includes any recent legislation and policy applicable to awards that is highlighted on this website. when calculating the award for additional funds, nih will 1) prorate funding if the requested budget period is adjusted at the time of award, and 2) use the institution’s current f&a rate; i.e., the rate in effect when the new funding is provided.all nih grant and cooperative agreement awards include the nih grants policy statement as part of the noa. for these terms of award, see the nih grants policy statement part ii: terms and conditions of nih grant awards, subpart a: general and part ii: terms and conditions of nih grant awards, subpart b: terms and conditions for specific types of grants, grantees, and activities. more information is provided at award conditions and information for nih grants.recipients of federal financial assistance (ffa) from hhs must administer their programs in compliance with federal civil rights laws that prohibit discrimination on the basis of race, color, national origin, disability, age and, in some circumstances, religion, conscience, and sex. this includes ensuring programs are accessible to persons with limited english proficiency. the hhs office for civil rights provides guidance on complying with civil rights laws enforced by hhs. please see https://www.hhs.gov/civil-rights/for-providers/provider-obligations/index.html and http://www.hhs.gov/ocr/civilrights/understanding/section1557/index.html.hhs recognizes that research projects are often limited in scope for many reasons that are nondiscriminatory, such as the principal investigator’s scientific interest, funding limitations, recruitment requirements, and other considerations. thus, criteria in research protocols that target or exclude certain populations are warranted where nondiscriminatory justifications establish that such criteria are appropriate with respect to the health or safety of the subjects, the scientific study design, or the purpose of the research. for additional guidance regarding how the provisions apply to nih grant programs, please contact the scientific/research contact that is identified in section vii under agency contacts of this foa.please contact the hhs office for civil rights for more information about obligations and prohibitions under federal civil rights laws at https://www.hhs.gov/ocr/about-us/contact-us/index.html or call 1-800-368-1019 or tdd 1-800-537-7697.in accordance with the statutory provisions contained in section 872 of the duncan hunter national defense authorization act of fiscal year 2009 (public law 110-417), nih awards will be subject to the federal awardee performance and integrity information system (fapiis) requirements. fapiis requires federal award making officials to review and consider information about an applicant in the designated integrity and performance system (currently fapiis) prior to making an award. an applicant, at its option, may review information in the designated integrity and performance systems accessible through fapiis and comment on any information about itself that a federal agency previously entered and is currently in fapiis. the federal awarding agency will consider any comments by the applicant, in addition to other information in fapiis, in making a judgement about the applicant’s integrity, business ethics, and record of performance under federal awards when completing the review of risk posed by applicants as described in 45 cfr part 75.205 “federal awarding agency review of risk posed by applicants.” this provision will apply to all nih grants and cooperative agreements except fellowships.cooperative agreement terms and conditions of awardany supplements to cooperative agreements will be subject to the same cooperative agreement terms and conditions as the parent award.reporting requirements will be specified in the terms and conditions of award as applicable to the supplemental activities. in most non-competing continuation applications, the progress report and budget for the supplement must be included with, but clearly delineated from, the progress report and budget for the parent award. the progress report must include information about the activities supported by the supplement even if support for future years is not requested. continuation of support for the supplement activities in the remaining years of the competitive segment of the grant will depend upon satisfactory review by the nih awarding component of progress for both the parent award and the supplement project, the research proposed for the next budget period, and the appropriateness of the proposed budget for the proposed effort. this information is submitted with the research performance progress report (rppr) and financial statements as required in the nih grants policy statement.the federal funding accountability and transparency act of 2006 (transparency act), includes a requirement for awardees of federal grants to report information about first-tier subawards and executive compensation under federal assistance awards issued in fy2011 or later. all awardees of applicable nih grants and cooperative agreements are required to report to the federal subaward reporting system (fsrs) available at www.fsrs.gov on all subawards over $25,000. see the nih grants policy statement for additional information on this reporting requirement.in accordance with the regulatory requirements provided at 45 cfr 75.113 and appendix xii to 45 cfr part 75, recipients that have currently active federal grants, cooperative agreements, and procurement contracts from all federal awarding agencies with a cumulative total value greater than $10,000,000 for any period of time during the period of performance of a federal award, must report and maintain the currency of information reported in the system for award management (sam) about civil, criminal, and administrative proceedings in connection with the award or performance of a federal award that reached final disposition within the most recent five-year period. the recipient must also make semiannual disclosures regarding such proceedings. proceedings information will be made publicly available in the designated integrity and performance system (currently fapiis). this is a statutory requirement under section 872 of public law 110-417, as amended (41 u.s.c. 2313). as required by section 3010 of public law 111-212, all information posted in the designated integrity and performance system on or after april 15, 2011, except past performance reviews required for federal procurement contracts, will be publicly available. full reporting requirements and procedures are found in appendix xii to 45 cfr part 75 – award term and conditions for recipient integrity and performance matters.we encourage inquiries concerning this funding opportunity and welcome the opportunity to answer questions from potential applicants.era service desk (questions regarding assist, era commons, application errors and warnings, documenting system problems that threaten submission by the due date, and post-submission issues)finding help online: http://grants.nih.gov/support/ (preferred method of contact) telephone: 301-402-7469 or 866-504-9552 (toll free)general grants information (questions regarding application instructions, application processes, and nih grant resources) email: grantsinfo@nih.gov (preferred method of contact) telephone: 301-637-3015grants.gov customer support (questions regarding grants.gov registration and workspace) contact center telephone: 800-518-4726 email: support@grants.govfor any scientific or research-related questions on this administrative supplement notice please contact the program officer listed on the noa of the most recent parent award.not applicablefor any financial or grants management questions on this administrative supplement notice please contact the grants management specialist or grants management officer listed on the noa of the most recent parent award.recently issued trans-nih policy notices may affect your application submission. a full list of policy notices published by nih is provided in the nih guide for grants and contracts. all awards are subject to the terms and conditions, cost principles, and other considerations described in the nih grants policy statement.awards are made under the authorization of sections 301 and 405 of the public health service act as amended (42 usc 241 and 284) and under federal regulations 42 cfr part 52 and 45 cfr part 75. weekly toc for this announcement nih funding opportunities and noticesnote: for help accessing pdf, rtf, ms word, excel, powerpoint, audio or video files, see help downloading files.