Making Health Care Safer in Ambulatory Care Settings and Long-term Care Facilities (R18)
https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/pa-files/PA-21-267.html
agency for healthcare research and quality (ahrq)note: the policies, guidelines, terms, and conditions stated in this announcement may differ from those used by the nih. where this funding opportunity announcement (foa) provides specific written guidance that may differ from the general guidance provided in the grant application form, please follow the instructions given in this foa.agency for healthcare research and quality (ahrq)making health care safer in ambulatory care settings and long-term care facilities (r18)r18 research demonstration and dissemination projectsnew, renewal and resubmissionnot-od-23-012 reminder: forms-h grant application forms and instructions must be used for due dates on or after january 25, 2023 - new grant application instructions now availablenot-od-22-190 - adjustments to nih and ahrq grant application due dates between september 22 and september 30, 2022february 17, 2022 - ahrq announces interest in health services research on health system and healthcare professional responsiveness to covid-19. see notice not-hs-22-010october 28, 2021 - reminder: forms-g grant application forms & instructions must be used for due dates on or after january 25, 2022 - new grant application instructions now available. see notice not-od-22-018.august 5, 2021 - new nih "forms-g" grant application forms and instructions coming for due dates on or after january 25, 2022. see notice not-od-21-169.august 5, 2021 - update: notification of upcoming change in federal-wide unique entity identifier requirements. see notice not-od-21-170.april 20, 2021 - expanding requirement for era commons ids to all senior/key personnel. see notice not-od-21-109.pa-18-750 - making health care safer in ambulatory care settings and long-term care facilities (r18)not-hs-21-015 - ahrq policy on the inclusion of priority populations in researchnot-hs-21-007 - salary limitation on ahrq fy2021 grants, cooperative agreements, and contractsnot-hs-21-002 - ahrq guide notice on exception to the use of the single irb review requirements during the coronavirus disease 2019 (covid-19) public health emergencynot-hs-20-077 - reminder: forms-f grant application forms & instructions must be used for due dates on or after may 25, 2020—new grant application instructions now availablenot-hs-20-017 - changes to the hhs notice of award (noa) beginning october 1, 2020not-hs-20-011 - the agency for healthcare research and quality data management plan policynot-hs-20-006 - salary limitation on ahrq fy2020 grants, cooperative agreements, and contractsnot-hs-20-005 - ahrq guide notice on implementation of the use of a single institutional review board (irb) for cooperative research at 45 cfr 46.114 (b)not-hs-19-007 - ahrq announces change in grant recipient purchasing of identifiable cms data, effective fy2019pa-21-267not applicablesee section iii. 3. additional information on eligibility.93.226the agency for healthcare research and quality's (ahrq) mission is to produce evidence to make health care safer, of higher quality, more accessible, equitable, and affordable, and to work within the u.s. department of health and human services and with other partners to make sure that the evidence is understood and used. ahrq's center for quality improvement and patient safety (cquips) works to ensure patient safety in multiple settings with recent efforts to increase the development of processes including measures, metrics, tools and practices to increase patient safety in the ambulatory care setting and in long-term care facilities.this funding opportunity announcement (foa) will fund large research demonstration and implementation projects that pertain to ambulatory care settings and long-term care facilities with a focus on implementing evidence-based processes to improve patient safety, especially those involving transitions in care.ahrq is interested in studies in these two settings that develop, utilize, and evaluate strategies to implement existing measures, metrics, tools or practices that have already been validated and have been shown to be efficacious in improving patient safety sites.september 9, 2021september 9, 2021standard dates apply. the first standard due date for the foa is january 25, 2022.all applications are due by 5:00 pm local time of applicant organization.applicants are encouraged to apply early to allow adequate time to make any corrections to errors found in the application during the submission process by the due date.not applicablegenerally, four months after receipt date.not applicable.generally, four months after peer review date.may 27, 2024not applicableit is critical that applicants follow the research (r) instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, except where instructed to do otherwise (in this foa or in a notice from the nih guide for grants and contracts). conformance to all requirements (both in the application guide and the foa) is required and strictly enforced. applicants must read and follow all application instructions in the application guide as well as any program-specific instructions noted in section iv and follow the ahrq grants policy and guidance found on the ahrq website at http://www.ahrq.gov/funding/policies/foaguidance/index.html.when the program-specific instructions deviate from those in the application guide, follow the program-specific instructions. applications that do not comply with these instructions may be delayed or not accepted for review.applicants who propose the use of identifiable cms data are advised to review not-hs-19-007 (https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/notice-files/not-hs-19-007.html) for important changes to how applicants are to budget for the cost of this data.there are several options available to submit your application through grants.gov to nih and department of health and human services partners. you must use one of these submission options to access the application forms for this opportunity.part 1. overview information part 2. full text of the announcementsection i. funding opportunity description section ii. award information section iii. eligibility information section iv. application and submission information section v. application review information section vi. award administration information section vii. agency contacts section viii. other informationpurposethis funding opportunity announcement (foa) will fund large research demonstration and implementation projects that implement existing measures, metrics, tools and/or practices that have been shown to be efficacious in making healthcare safer in ambulatory care settings or -long-term care facilities. knowledge gained from these projects will improve the prevention of adverse events that occur in these two settings, and increase the knowledge base of how to best integrate measures, metrics, tools and practices to prevent harm and make healthcare more equitable for all among diverse health care delivery systems and sites that provide ambulatory and long-term care (particularly among vulnerable populations where inequities may be more apparent).backgroundimproving safety in all healthcare settings is a priority for ahrq, and a comprehensive strategy is in place to reduce adverse events in all settings so that people can expect safe and equitable care whenever and wherever they receive it, including health care that occurs between and across settings. as the most significant investments in improving patient safety had originally been made in the inpatient and emergency room settings, ahrq launched a multi-year initiative to expand the scientific evidence, strategies, and tools that are available for improving patient safety in all health care settings. specifically, in 2015 ahrq published two funding opportunity announcements that were focused on improving patient safety in ambulatory care settings and long-term care facilities. these settings have unique challenges and barriers inherent in improving safety including the assurance of coordination, continuity, communication, and follow-up of care that is often spread among a number of providers. in subsequent years, progress was made in the development, improvement and use of evidence-based measures, metrics, tools and practices to overcome such challenges and improve patient safety in the ambulatory and long-term care settings. measures, metrics, tools, and practices have been derived from new and existing data sources and have been validated and are practicable for broader implementation in other ambulatory or long-term care sites. research about implementation strategies and the impact on patient safety in ambulatory and long-term care settings will provide information for decision-makers and ensure effective delivery of safe care in these settings.in cases where a measure, metric, tool, or practice has been found to improve patient safety, has been validated, and tested locally, little may be known about the best means of implementation, the challenges and barriers associated with implementation, or the factors that contribute to effective implementation. a need exists for new and improved strategies for implementation of measures, metrics, tools and practices to be developed and evaluated in ambulatory and long-term care settings to achieve the maximum impact on patient safety and public health.common termshealthcare organizations use different ways to define the nature of care provided as ambulatory versus -long-term care or other types of care. for the purposes of this foa:project scopethis foa highlights two research areas of interest based on their settings - ambulatory care and long-term care, with a specific focus on developing and evaluating strategies to integrate evidence-based health care measures, metrics, tools and/or practices more broadly to make health care safer for more individuals and organizations. projects may involve implementation pilots held at a single site, several local sites simultaneously, or be large and wide in scale. the investigator will need to determine the scale of the project based upon the measure, metric, tool, or practice of interest, status of testing, and available resources in their health care setting. projects should include a focus on issues that are relevant to underserved and vulnerable populations. additionally, ahrq has a specific interest in settings that serve vulnerable populations, including federally qualified health centers (fqhcs), community health centers, safety-net hospital outpatient departments, physician offices and long-term care facilities.promoting equity is an important societal goal. ahrq intends that research funded by the agency contribute to this goal by addressing equity. ahrq encourages applicants responding to this foa to consider whether there are equity issues in their proposed projects and, where relevant, to address these issues in the proposed research plan.applicants must provide the following:in addition:investigations performed under this funding opportunity may require large amounts of data that are collected and stored in the electronic health record as part of the normal process of care. applicants must demonstrate in the application that their institution(s) and/or site(s) have the capacity to continually assess the impact that the implementation intervention has on patient safety. implementation projects of this kind generally require the involvement of all individuals at a site, including patients, health care providers, clinicians, and senior executives (e.g., the c-suite) to achieve successful change and improvement in patent safety outcomes.specific areas of interest for this foa include the following examples:applicants are required to submit a predicted project impact statement, which will be evaluated in the determination of scientific merit in terms of the proposed project's significance. please note that this (scored review criterion) is different from the overall impact in section v. external stakeholders often ask about the impact that ahrq’s funded research is having in terms of making health care safer, higher quality, and higher value. given increasing use of data visualization, infographic, extrapolation, modeling, and predictive and sensitivity analytic techniques in moving from the known to the unknown and to better portray the potential value and benefit resulting from research findings, applicants must describe -- recognizing the necessary precautions and the early stage nature of the request -- the techniques that could be used to best show the impact their proposed research aims could have. applicants are to include in this statement an estimate of potential impact based on the identified techniques. the predicted project impact statement is limited to one page, and should be provided as an appendix attachment 1. applications that fail to include the predicted project impact statement will not be accepted for review.see section viii. other information for award authorities and regulations.grant: a support mechanism providing money, property, or both to an eligible entity to carry out an approved project or activity.new renewal resubmissionthe oer glossary and the sf424 (r&r) application guide provide details on these application types. only those application types listed here are allowed for this foa.optionalneed help determining whether you are doing a clinical trial?the number of awards is contingent upon the availability of funds and the submission of a sufficient number of meritorious applications. future year funding is contingent upon the availability of funds for each year of support.the total costs (direct and indirect) for a project awarded under this foa will not exceed $450,000 in any given year and $1.35 million for the entire project period.funds may be used only for those expenses that are directly related and necessary to the project and must be expended in compliance with applicable omb uniform administrative requirements, cost principles, and audit requirements for hhs awards (45 cfr part 75) and the hhs grants policy statement.the project period may not exceed 3 years.all applications submitted and ahrq grants made in response to this foa are subject to 45 cfr part 75 (uniform administrative requirements, cost principles and audit requirements for hhs awards; http://www.ecfr.gov/cgi-bin/text-idx?node=pt45.1.75) , the hhs grants policy statement (see http://www.ahrq.gov/funding/policies/hhspolicy/index.html), and the terms and conditions set forth in the notice of award.higher education institutionsthe following types of higher education institutions are always encouraged to apply for ahrq support as public or private institutions of higher education:nonprofits other than institutions of higher educationgovernmentsotherahrq's authorizing legislation does not allow for-profit organizations to be eligible to lead applications under this research mechanism. for-profit organizations may participate in projects as members of consortia or as subcontractors only. because the purpose of this program is to improve healthcare in the united states, foreign institutions may participate in projects as members of consortia or as subcontractors only. applications submitted by for-profit organizations or foreign institutions will not be reviewed. organizations described in section 501(c) 4 of the internal revenue code that engage in lobbying are not eligible.hhs grants policy requires that the grant recipient perform a substantive role in the conduct of the planned project or program activity and not merely serve as a conduit of funds to another party or parties. if consortium/contractual activities represent a significant portion of the overall project, the applicant must justify why the applicant organization, rather than the party(s) performing this portion of the overall project, should be the grantee and what substantive role the applicant organization will play. justification can be provided in the specific aims or research strategy section of the phs398 research plan component sections of the sf424 (r&r) application. there is no budget allocation guideline for determining substantial involvement; determination of substantial involvement is based on a review of the primary project activities for which grant support is provided and the organization(s) that will be performing those activities.non-domestic (non-u.s.) entities (foreign institutions) are not eligible to apply. non-domestic (non-u.s.) components of u.s. organizations are not eligible to apply.applicant organizationsapplicant organizations must complete and maintain the following registrations as described in the sf 424 (r&r) application guide to be eligible to apply for or receive an award. all registrations must be completed prior to the application being submitted. registration can take 6 weeks or more, so applicants should begin the registration process as soon as possible. dun and bradstreet universal numbering system (duns) - all registrations require that applicants be issued a duns number. after obtaining a duns number, applicants can begin both sam and era commons registrations. the same duns number must be used for all registrations, as well as on the grant application.program directors/principal investigators (pd(s)/pi(s))all pd(s)/pi(s) must have an era commons account. pd(s)/pi(s) should work with their organizational officials to either create a new account or to affiliate their existing account with the applicant organization in era commons. if the pd/pi is also the organizational signing official, they must have two distinct era commons accounts, one for each role. obtaining an era commons account can take up to 2 weeks.please note that for applications with due dates of january 25, 2022, and after, all individuals listed in the sf424 r&r senior/key person profile (expanded) form will be required to have an era commons username (commons id). see not-od-21-109 (https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/notice-files/not-od-21-109.html) for details.any individual(s) with the skills, knowledge, and resources necessary to carry out the proposed research as the program director(s)/principal investigator(s) (pd(s)/pi(s)) is invited to work with his/her organization to develop an application for support. individuals from underrepresented racial and ethnic groups as well as individuals with disabilities are always encouraged to apply for ahrq support.for institutions/organizations proposing multiple pds/pis, visit the multiple program director/principal investigator policy and submission details in the senior/key person profile (expanded) component of the sf424 (r&r) application guide. the ahrq multiple pds/pis policy can be found at https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/notice-files/not-hs-16-018.html.a single pd/pi, or the multiple pd(s)/pi(s) combined, must devote at least 20% minimum full-time effort (i.e. at least 8 hours per week) in each given year of the project.this foa does not require cost sharing.while there is no cost-sharing requirement included in this foa, ahrq welcomes applicant institutions, including any collaborating institutions, to devote resources to this effort. an indication of institutional support from the applicant and its collaborators indicates a greater potential of success and sustainability of the project. examples of institutional support would include donated equipment and space, institutional funded staff time and effort, or other resource investments. applicant institutions should indicate institutional support by outlining the specific contributions to the project and providing assurances that their organization and any collaborators are committed to providing these funds and resources to the project. this information can be included at the end of the budget justification section of the application, but institutional support dollars are not to be shown/included in the detailed budget request.applicant organizations may submit more than one application, provided that each application is scientifically distinct.the ahrq will not accept duplicate or highly overlapping applications under review at the same time. this means that the ahrq will not accept:the application forms package specific to this opportunity must be accessed through assist, grants.gov workspace or an institutional system-to-system solution. links to apply using assist or grants.gov workspace are available in part 1 of this foa. see your administrative office for instructions if you plan to use an institutional system-to-system solution.it is critical that applicants follow the research (r) instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, except where instructed in this funding opportunity announcement to do otherwise. conformance to the requirements in the application guide is required and strictly enforced. applications that are out of compliance with these instructions may be delayed or not accepted for review.for information on application submission and receipt, visit frequently asked questions – application guide, electronic submission of grant applications via https://grants.nih.gov/faqs#/.not applicable.all page limitations described in the sf424 application guide and the table of page limits must be followed.the following section supplements the instructions found in the sf424 (r&r) application guide and should be used for preparing an application to this foa.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.budget component: special instructions for ahrq applicationsahrq is not using the modular grant application and award process. applicants applying for funding from ahrq are to ignore application instructions concerning the modular grant application and award process, and prepare applications using instructions for the research and related budget components of the sf 424 (r&r). applications submitted in the modular format will not be reviewed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed, with the following additional instructions:o a detailed description of a measure, metric, tool and/or practice (i.e. data sources, attributes, units, scale, target or goal value, function, indicators to monitor progress and performance), and the results of the tests of validity that were performed;o a detailed description of the plans for developing and evaluating an implementation of an existing measure, metric, tool, and/or practice;o the outcome measure(s) that will be utilized to assess the success of the implementation including, but not limited to, feasibility, fidelity, penetration, acceptability, sustainability, uptake and costs, and how the independent factors that contribute to success will be assessed;o the outcome measure that will be used to assess changes in patient safety, or changes in the incidence of adverse events;o a detailed description of a dissemination plan for large, wide-scale implementations including the target audience, methods of dissemination, and uptake;o applicants should include a letter of support from the ceo or equivalent individual at each site where the implementation will occur.appendix:only limited appendix materials are allowed. follow all instructions for the appendix as described in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.do not use the appendix to circumvent page limits. follow all instructions for the appendix as described in the sf424 (r&r) application guide. see nih/niosh/ahrq new policy appendix guide located at not-od-18-126.appendix 1: applicants are required to submit a predicted project impact statement, which will be evaluated in the determination of scientific merit in terms of the proposed project's significance. please note that this (scored review criterion) is different from the overall impact in section v. external stakeholders often ask about the impact that ahrq’s funded research is having in terms of making health care safer, higher quality, and less costly. given increasing use of data visualization, infographic, extrapolation, modeling, and predictive and sensitivity analytic techniques in moving from the known to the unknown and to better portray the potential value and benefit resulting from research findings, applicants must describe -- recognizing the necessary precautions and the early stage nature of the request -- the techniques that could be used to best show the impact their proposed research aims could have. applicants are to include in this statement an estimate of potential impact based on the identified techniques. the predicted project impact statement is limited to one page. applications that fail to include the predicted project impact statement will not be accepted for review.when involving human subjects research, clinical research, and/or clinical trials (and when applicable, clinical trials research experience) follow all instructions for the phs human subjects and clinical trials information form in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, with the following additional instructionsif you answered “yes” to the question “are human subjects involved?” on the r&r other project information form, you must include at least one human subjects study record using the study record: phs human subjects and clinical trials information form or delayed onset study record.study record: phs human subjects and clinical trials informationall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.delayed onset studynote: delayed onset does not apply to a study that can be described but will not start immediately (i.e., delayed start).for details regarding irb approval, applicants may refer to the "ahrq revised policy for institutional review board (irb) review of human subjects protocols in grant applications" (https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/notice-files/not-hs-00-003.html). applicant should also be aware of the ahrq policy for use of single irb for cooperative research, 45 cfr 46.114 (b)” https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/notice-files/not-hs-20-005.html.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.see part 2 for information regarding the requirement for obtaining a unique entity identifier and for completing and maintaining active registrations in system for award management (sam), nato commercial and government entity (ncage) code (if applicable), era commons, and grants.govpart i. overview information contains information about key dates and times. applicants are encouraged to submit applications before the due date to ensure they have time to make any application corrections that might be necessary for successful submission. when a submission date falls on a weekend or federal holiday, the application deadline is automatically extended to the next business day.organizations must submit applications to grants.gov (the online portal to find and apply for grants across all federal agencies). applicants must then complete the submission process by tracking the status of the application in the era commons, nih’s electronic system for grants administration. ahrq and grants.gov systems check the application against many of the application instructions upon submission. errors must be corrected and a changed/corrected application must be submitted to grants.gov on or before the application due date and time. if a changed/corrected application is submitted after the deadline, the application will be considered late.applicants are responsible for viewing their application before the due date in the era commons to ensure accurate and successful submission.information on the submission process and a definition of on-time submission are provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.this initiative is not subject to intergovernmental review.for efficient grant administration, ahrq grant administration procedures will be used and conducted in accordance with the terms and conditions, cost principles, and other considerations described in the hhs grants policy statement. the hhs grants policy statement can be found at http://www.hhs.gov/sites/default/files/grants/grants/policies-regulations/hhsgps107.pdf.pre-award costs are allowable. a grantee may, at its own risk and without ahrq prior approval, incur obligations and expenditures to cover costs up to 90 days before the beginning date of the initial budget period of a new award if such costs are necessary to conduct the project and would be allowable under the grant, if awarded, without ahrq prior approval. if specific expenditures would otherwise require prior approval, the grantee must obtain ahrq approval before incurring the cost. ahrq prior approval is required for any costs to be incurred more than 90 days before the beginning date of the initial budget period of a new award.the incurrence of pre-award costs in anticipation of a competing or non-competing award imposes no obligation on ahrq either to make the award or to increase the amount of the approved budget if an award is made for less than the amount anticipated and is inadequate to cover the pre-award costs incurred. ahrq expects the grantee to be fully aware that pre-award costs result in borrowing against future support and that such borrowing must not impair the grantee's ability to accomplish the project objectives in the approved time frame or in any way adversely affect the conduct of the project.applications must be submitted electronically following the instructions described in the sf424 (r&r) application guide. paper applications will not be accepted.applicants must complete all required registrations before the application due date. section iii. eligibility information contains information about registration.for assistance with your electronic application or for more information on the electronic submission process, visit how to apply – application guide. if you encounter a system issue beyond your control that threatens your ability to complete the submission process on time, you must follow the dealing with system issues guidance. for assistance with application submission, contact the application submission contacts in section vii.important reminders:all pd(s)/pi(s) must include their era commons id in the credential field of the senior/key person profile component of the sf424(r&r) application package. failure to register in the commons and to include a valid pd/pi commons id in the credential field will prevent the successful submission of an electronic application to nih. see section iii of this foa for information on registration requirements.please note that for applications with due dates of january 25, 2022, and after, all individuals listed in the sf424 r&r senior/key person profile (expanded) form will be required to have an era commons username (commons id). see not-od-21-109 (https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/notice-files/not-od-21-109.html) for details.the applicant organization must ensure that the duns number it provides on the application is the same number used in the organization’s profile in the era commons and for the system for award management. additional information may be found in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.see more tips for avoiding common errors.the applicant should pay particular attention to the sf424 (r&r) application guide instructions (https://grants.nih.gov/grants/how-to-apply-application-guide/forms-e/general-forms-e.pdf) concerning letters of support. letters of support, recommendation, or affirmation from any entity or individual not directly participating in the project should not be included.upon receipt, applications will be evaluated for completeness and compliance with application instructions by the center for scientific review, nih and for responsiveness by ahrq. applications that are incomplete or non-compliant will not be reviewed.institutional review board (irb) approval of human subjects is not required prior to peer review of an application (see https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/notice-files/not-hs-00-003.html). however, initiation of irb review, if necessary or applicable, is strongly encouraged to assure timely commencement of research.although there is no immediate acknowledgement of the receipt of an application, applicants are generally notified of the review and funding assignment within eight (8) weeks.applicants are required to follow the instructions for post-submission materials, as described in https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/notice-files/not-od-18-197.htm and not-od-20-179 - , as applicable. any instructions provided here are in addition to the instructions in the policy.priority populationsahrq’s authorizing legislation provides that ahrq shall, in carrying out its mission, conduct and support research and evaluations, and support demonstration projects, with respect to the delivery of health care in inner-city and rural areas (including frontier areas); and health care for priority populations, which include low-income groups; minority groups; women; children; the elderly; and individuals with special health care needs, including individuals with disabilities and individuals who need chronic care or end-of-life health care. 42 u.s.c. 299(c)(1). ahrq was also directed to establish a process to ensure that these requirements are reflected in the overall portfolio of research conducted and supported by the agency. 42 u.s.c. 299(c)(2).ahrq is committed to the inclusion of priority populations in health services research. the overall portfolio of health services research that ahrq conducts and supports shall include the populations specifically named in ahrq’s authorizing legislation: inner city; rural; low income; minority; women; children; elderly; and those with special health care needs, including those who have disabilities, need chronic care, or need end-of-life health care. ahrq also includes in its definition of priority populations those groups identified in section 2(a) of executive order 13985 as members of underserved communities: black, latino, and indigenous and native american persons, asian americans and pacific islanders and other persons of color; members of religious minorities; lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and queer (lgbtq+) persons; persons with disabilities; persons who live in rural areas; and persons otherwise adversely affected by persistent poverty or inequality.ahrq will broadly implement this inclusion policy across the research that ahrq supports and conducts so that the portfolio of research is inclusive of all populations. ahrq intends that these populations be included in studies such that the research design explicitly allows conduct of valid analyses. the policy applies to all grant applications. investigators should review the document entitled, “ahrq policy on the inclusion of priority populations,” which is available at https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/notice-files/not-hs-21-015.html. applicants under this foa must consider and discuss including priority populations in research design as specified in this notice.public access to ahrq-funded scientific publicationsinvestigators should review the document titled ‘ahrq announces new policy for public access to ahrq-funded scientific publications’, which is available at (http://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/notice-files/not-hs-16-008.html). for all research arising from ahrq support, this policy requires that ahrq-funded authors submit an electronic version of the author’s final peer-reviewed accepted manuscript to the national library of medicine's pubmed central (pmc) to be made publicly available within 12 months of the publisher’s date of publication.plan for sharing research datathe precise content of the data-sharing plan will vary, depending on the data being collected and how the investigator is planning to share the data. applicants who are planning to share data should describe briefly the expected schedule for data sharing; the format of the final dataset; the documentation to be provided; whether or not any analytic tools also will be provided; whether or not a data-sharing agreement will be required and, if so, a brief description of such an agreement (including the criteria for deciding who can receive the data and whether or not any conditions will be placed on their use); and the mode of data sharing (e.g., under its own auspices by mailing a disk or posting data on its institutional or personal website or through a data archive or enclave). investigators choosing to share under their own auspices may wish to enter into a data-sharing agreement. references to data sharing may also be appropriate in other sections of the application.the reasonableness of the data-sharing plan or the rationale for not sharing research data will be assessed by the reviewers. however, reviewers will not factor the proposed data-sharing plan into the determination of scientific merit or the priority score.ahrq data management plan policyinvestigators should review the document titled ahrq data management plan (dmp) policy, which is available at (https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/notice-files/not-hs-20-011.html). this policy requires applicants for ahrq new/competing grants and research contracts to include a dmp for managing, storing and disseminating the primary data, samples, physical collections and other supporting materials created or gathered in the course of research funded by ahrq, or state why data management is not possible, as a component of their grant application or research contract proposal.data confidentialitythe ahrq confidentiality statute, 42 usc 299c-3(c), requires that information that is obtained in the course of ahrq supported activities and that identifies individuals or establishments be used only for the purpose for which it was supplied. information that is obtained in the course of ahrq-supported activities and that identifies an individual may be published or released only with the consent of the individual who supplied the information or is described in it. there are civil monetary penalties for violation of the confidentiality provision of the ahrq statute. 42 usc 299c-3(d). in the human subjects section of the application, applicants must describe procedures for ensuring the confidentiality of the identifying information to be collected (see not-hs-18-012: confidentiality in ahrq-supported research). the description of the procedures should include a discussion of who will be permitted access to this information, both raw data and machine-readable files, and how personal identifiers and other identifying or identifiable data will be restricted and safeguarded. identifiable patient health information collected by grantees under this rfa will also be obtained and managed in accordance with the hipaa privacy rule, 45 cfr parts 160 and 164.the grantee should ensure that computer systems containing confidential data have a level and scope of security that equals or exceeds that established by the hipaa security rules if applicable (see hipaa website in prior paragraph) and that established by the office of management and budget (omb) in omb circular no. a-130, appendix iii - security of federal automated information systems. the applicability and intended means of applying these confidentiality and security standards to subcontractors and vendors, if any, should be addressed in the application.sharing research resources: rights in dataunless otherwise provided in grant awards, ahrq grantees may copyright, or seek patents for, as appropriate, final and interim products and materials developed in whole or in part with ahrq support, including, but not limited to, methodological tools, measures, software with documentation, literature searches, and analyses. such copyrights and patents are subject to a royalty-free, non-exclusive, and irrevocable ahrq license to reproduce, publish, use or disseminate for any purpose consistent with ahrq’s statutory responsibilities and to authorize others to do so for any purpose consistent with ahrq’s statutory responsibilities. in accordance with its legislative dissemination mandate, ahrq purposes may include, subject to statutory confidentiality protections, making project materials, databases, results, and algorithms available for verification or replication by other researchers. in addition, subject to ahrq budget constraints, final products may be made available to the health care community and the public by ahrq or its agents if such distribution would significantly increase access to a product and thereby produce substantial or valuable public health benefits. ordinarily, to accomplish distribution, ahrq publicizes research findings but relies on grantees to publish research results in peer-reviewed journals and to market grant-supported products. ahrq requests that grantees notify the office of communications (oc) when an ahrq-funded research article has been accepted for publication in a peer-reviewed journal. researchers should submit manuscripts that have been accepted for publication in a peer-reviewed journal to journalpublishing@ahrq.hhs.gov at least four to six weeks in advance of the journal’s expected publication date.regulations applicable to ahrq grantees concerning intangible rights and copyright can be found at 45 cfr 75.322.the mission of ahrq is to produce evidence to make health care safer, higher quality, more accessible, equitable, and affordable, and to work with the u.s. department of health and human services (hhs) and other partners to make sure that the evidence is understood and used.ahrq's priority areas of focus are available at https://www.ahrq.gov/funding/policies/foaguidance/index.html.applications that are complete and responsive to the foa will be evaluated for scientific and technical merit by an appropriate objective group convened in accordance with standard ahrq peer-review procedures that are described in 42 cfr part 67, subpart a. incomplete and/or non-responsive applications or applications not following instructions given in this foa will not be reviewed. only the review criteria described below will be considered in the review process.administrative criteria: upon receipt, applications will be evaluated for completeness by the center for scientific review, national institutes of health, and for responsiveness by ahrq.merit review criteria: merit review criteria, as described below, will be considered in the review process.reviewers will provide an overall impact score to reflect their assessment of the likelihood for the project to exert a sustained, powerful influence on the research field(s) involved, in consideration of the following review criteria and additional review criteria (as applicable for the project proposed).reviewers will consider each of the review criteria below in the determination of scientific merit, and give a separate score for each. an application does not need to be strong in all categories to be judged likely to have major scientific impact. for example, a project that by its nature is not innovative may be essential to advance a field.does the project address an important problem or a critical barrier to progress in the field? is the prior research that serves as the key support for the proposed project rigorous? if the aims of the project are achieved, how will scientific knowledge, technical capability, and/or clinical practice be improved? how will successful completion of the aims change the concepts, methods, technologies, treatments, services, or preventative interventions that drive this field?does the predicted project impact statement directly relate to the problem? is the impact attainable through this study? does the impact involve affecting harms caused by a patient safety concern(s) in reducing various levels of harm, costs associated with harm or improvement in quality of treatment? has the applicant considered the impact of addressing equity on the problem or the project?are the pd(s)/pi(s), collaborators, and other researchers well suited to the project? if early stage investigator(s) or those are in the early stages of independent careers, do they have appropriate experience and training? if established, have they demonstrated an ongoing record of accomplishments that have advanced their field(s)?if the project is collaborative or multi-pd/pi, do the investigators have complementary and integrated expertise; are their leadership approach, governance and organizational structure appropriate for the project?is the single pd/pi, or are the multiple pd(s)/pi(s) combined, devoting at least 20% minimum full-time effort (i.e. at least 8 hours per week) in each given year of the project?does the application challenge and seek to shift current research or clinical practice paradigms by utilizing novel theoretical concepts, approaches or methodologies, instrumentation, or interventions? are the concepts, approaches or methodologies, instrumentation, or interventions novel to one field of research or novel in a broad sense? is a refinement, improvement, or new application of theoretical concepts, approaches or methodologies, instrumentation, or interventions proposed?are the overall strategy, methodology, and analyses well-reasoned and appropriate to accomplish the specific aims of the project? have the investigators included plans to address weaknesses in the rigor of prior research that serves as the key support for the proposed project? have the investigators presented strategies to ensure a robust and unbiased approach, as appropriate for the work proposed? are potential problems, alternative strategies, and benchmarks for success presented? if the project is in the early stages of development, will the strategy establish feasibility and will particularly risky aspects be managed? have the investigators presented adequate plans to address relevant biological variables, such as sex, for studies in human subjects? if the project involves human subjects, are the plans to address 1) the protection of human subjects from research risks, and 2) inclusion (or exclusion) of individuals on the basis of sex/gender, race, and ethnicity, as well as the inclusion or exclusion of individuals of all ages (including children and older adults), justified in terms of the scientific goals and research strategy proposed? has the applicant considered equity issues relevant to their project and, where equity issues have been identified, proposed a plan to address these issues?will the scientific environment in which the work will be done contribute to the probability of success? are the institutional support, equipment and other physical resources available to the investigators adequate for the project proposed? will the project benefit from unique features of the scientific environment, subject populations, or collaborative arrangements?as applicable for the project proposed, reviewers will evaluate the following additional items while determining scientific and technical merit, and in providing an overall impact score, but will not give separate scores for these items.how well does the proposed research plan align with ahrq’s mission and research priorities?inclusion of priority populationspeer reviewers will assess the adequacy of plans to address the needs of both genders, racial and ethnic minorities (and subgroups).peer reviewers must include their assessment of the proposed inclusion plan for priority populations in evaluating the overall scientific and technical merit of the application and assigning the impact score.in conducting peer review for scientific and technical merit, the peer review groups will:for research that involves human subjects but does not involve one of the categories of research that are exempt under 45 cfr part 46, the committee will evaluate the justification for involvement of human subjects and the proposed protections from research risk relating to their participation according to the following five review criteria: 1) risk to subjects, 2) adequacy of protection against risks, 3) potential benefits to the subjects and others, 4) importance of the knowledge to be gained, and 5) data and safety monitoring for clinical trials.for research that involves human subjects and meets the criteria for one or more of the categories of research that are exempt under 45 cfr part 46, the committee will evaluate: 1) the justification for the exemption, 2) human subjects involvement and characteristics, and 3) sources of materials. for additional information on review of the human subjects section, please refer to the guidelines for the review of human subjects.for details regarding irb approval, applicants may refer to the "ahrq revised policy for institutional review board (irb) review of human subjects protocols in grant applications" (https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/notice-files/not-hs-00-003.html). applicant should also be aware of the ahrq policy for use of single irb for cooperative research, 45 cfr 46.114 (b)” https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/notice-files/not-hs-20-005.html.degree of responsivenessfor resubmissions, the committee will evaluate the application as now presented, taking into consideration the responses to comments from the previous scientific review group and changes made to the project.for renewals, the committee will consider the progress made in the last funding period.as applicable for the project proposed, reviewers will consider each of the following items, but will not give scores for these items, and should not consider them in providing an overall impact score.budget and period of supportapplications that are complete and responsive to the foa will be evaluated for scientific and technical merit by an appropriate scientific review group convened in accordance with standard ahrq peer review procedures that are described in 42 cfr part 67, subpart a. incomplete and/or non-responsive applications or applications not following instructions given in this foa will not be reviewed.as part of the scientific peer review, all applications:applications will compete for available funds with all other recommended applications submitted in response to this foa.the following will be considered in making funding decisions:after the peer review of the application is completed, the pd/pi will be able to access his or her summary statement (written critique) via the era commons. refer to part 1 for dates for peer review, advisory council review, and earliest possible start date.information regarding the disposition of applications is available in the hhs grants policy statement (see https://www.ahrq.gov/funding/policies/hhspolicy/index.html).if the application is under consideration for funding, ahrq will request "just-in-time" information from the applicant. just-in-time information generally consists of information on other support, any additional information necessary to address administrative and budgetary issues, and certification of irb approval of the project's proposed use of human subjects. for details regarding irb approval, applicants may refer to the "ahrq revised policy for institutional review board (irb) review of human subjects protocols in grant applications" (https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/notice-files/not-hs-00-003.html) applicant should also be aware of the ahrq policy for use of single irb for cooperative research, 45 cfr 46.114 (b)” https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/notice-files/not-hs-20-005.html.if all administrative and programmatic issues are resolved, a formal notification in the form of a notice of award (noa) will be provided to the applicant organization for successful applications. the noa signed by the ahrq grants management officer is the authorizing document and will be sent via email to the e-mail address designated by the recipient organization during the era commons registration process.awardees must comply with any funding restrictions described in section iv.6. funding restrictions.selection of an application for award is not an authorization to begin performance. any costs incurred before receipt of the noa are at the recipient's risk. these costs may be reimbursed only to the extent considered allowable pre-award costs.any application awarded in response to this foa will be subject to the duns, sam registration, and transparency act requirements as noted on the ahrq web site at https://www.ahrq.gov/funding/grant-mgmt/index.html.all ahrq grants awards are subject to omb's uniform grant guidance, hhs’s “uniform administrative requirements, cost principles, and audit requirements for hhs awards,” (http://www.ecfr.gov/cgi-bin/text-idx?node=pt45.1.75), and the hhs grants policy statement (see http://www.ahrq.gov/funding/policies/hhspolicy/index.html), and the terms and conditions set forth in the notice of award.all applicants will be subject to a term and condition that applies the terms of 48 cfr section 3.908 to the award, and requires that grantees inform their employees in writing of employee whistleblower rights and protections under 41u.s.c. 4712 in the predominant native language of the workforce.as necessary, additional terms and conditions will be incorporated into the noa.accessibility provisions for all grant application packages and funding opportunity announcements.should you successfully compete for an award, recipients of federal financial assistance (ffa) from hhs must administer their programs in compliance with federal civil rights laws that prohibit discrimination on the basis of race, color, national origin, disability, age and, in some circumstances, religion, conscience, and sex (including gender identity, sexual orientation, and pregnancy). this includes ensuring programs are accessible to persons with limited english proficiency and persons with disabilities. the hhs office for civil rights provides guidance on complying with civil rights laws enforced by hhs. see https://www.hhs.gov/civil-rights/for-providers/provider-obligations/index.html and https://www.hhs.gov/civil-rights/for-individuals/nondiscrimination/index.html.hhs recognizes that research projects are often limited in scope for many reasons that are nondiscriminatory, such as the principal investigator’s scientific interest, funding limitations, recruitment requirements, and other considerations. thus, criteria in research protocols that target or exclude certain populations are warranted where nondiscriminatory justifications establish that such criteria are appropriate with respect to the health or safety of the subjects, the scientific study design, or the purpose of the research. for additional guidance regarding how the provisions apply to ahrq grant programs, please contact the scientific/research contact that is identified in section vii under agency contacts of this foa.for additional guidance regarding how the provisions apply to ahrq grant programs, please contact the scientific/research contact that is identified in section vii under agency contacts of this foa.please contact the hhs office for civil rights for more information about obligations and prohibitions under federal civil rights laws at https://www.hhs.gov/ocr/about-us/contact-us/index.html or call 1-800-368-1019 or tdd 1-800-537-7697.in accordance with the statutory provisions contained in section 872 of the duncan hunter national defense authorization act of fiscal year 2009 (public law 110-417), nih awards will be subject to the federal awardee performance and integrity information system (fapiis) requirements. fapiis requires federal award making officials to review and consider information about an applicant in the designated integrity and performance system (currently fapiis) prior to making an award. an applicant, at its option, may review information in the designated integrity and performance systems accessible through fapiis and comment on any information about itself that a federal agency previously entered and is currently in fapiis. the federal awarding agency will consider any comments by the applicant, in addition to other information in fapiis, in making a judgement about the applicant’s integrity, business ethics, and record of performance under federal awards when completing the review of risk posed by applicants as described in 45 cfr part 75.205 “federal awarding agency review of risk posed by applicants.”when multiple years are involved, awardees will be required to submit the research performance progress report (rppr) annually unless specified otherwise in the terms of the award.for details regarding annual progress report submission, refer to https://www.ahrq.gov/funding/grant-mgmt/noncomp.html. if instructions on the ahrq website are different from the rppr instructions, follow the instructions on the ahrq website. annual progress reports are due 3 months before the start date of the next budget period of the award.in addition to the research performance progress report (rppr) that is due annually three months before the next budget period start date, the grantee may be required to submit interim progress reports to ahrq using the ahrq research reporting system (arrs). instructions on reporting requirements will be provided at the time of grant award.program planning and performance reporting requirements:the overarching objectives of these projects should be addressed through this reporting including progress with respect to:grantees are required to submit expenditure data on the federal financial report (ffr; sf 425) annually.expenditure data is to be reported on the federal financial report (ffr; sf 425). ahrq requires annual financial expenditure reports for all grant programs as described in the hhs grants policy statement (https://www.ahrq.gov/funding/policies/hhspolicy/index.html). ahrq implementation of the ffr retains a financial reporting period that coincides with the budget period of a particular project. however, the due date for annual ffrs is 90 days after the end of the calendar quarter in which the budget period ends. for example, if the budget period ends 4/30/2019, the annual ffr is due 9/30/2019 (90 days after the end of the calendar quarter of 6/30/2019).a final progress report, final federal financial report, and final invention statement are required when an award ends. all final reports are due within 90 days of the project period end date. for further details regarding grant closeout requirements, refer to http://www.ahrq.gov/funding/grant-mgmt/index.html#closeout.the federal funding accountability and transparency act of 2006 (transparency act), includes a requirement for awardees of federal grants to report information about first-tier subawards and executive compensation under federal assistance awards issued in fy2011 or later. all awardees of applicable ahrq grants and cooperative agreements are required to report to the federal subaward reporting system (fsrs) available at www.fsrs.gov on all subawards over $25,000. see the hhs grants policy statement (http://www.ahrq.gov/funding/policies/hhspolicy/index.html) for additional information on this reporting requirement.in accordance with the regulatory requirements provided at 45 cfr 75.113 and appendix xii to 45 cfr part 75, recipients that have currently active federal grants, cooperative agreements, and procurement contracts from all federal awarding agencies with a cumulative total value greater than $10,000,000 for any period of time during the period of performance of a federal award, must report and maintain the currency of information reported in the system for award management (sam) about civil, criminal, and administrative proceedings in connection with the award or performance of a federal award that reached final disposition within the most recent five-year period. the recipient must also make semiannual disclosures regarding such proceedings. proceedings information will be made publicly available in the designated integrity and performance system (currently fapiis). this is a statutory requirement under section 872 of public law 110-417, as amended (41 u.s.c. 2313). as required by section 3010 of public law 111-212, all information posted in the designated integrity and performance system on or after april 15, 2011, except past performance reviews required for federal procurement contracts, will be publicly available. full reporting requirements and procedures are found in appendix xii to 45 cfr part 75 – award term and conditions for recipient integrity and performance matters.we encourage inquiries concerning this funding opportunity and welcome the opportunity to answer questions from potential applicants.era service desk (questions regarding assist, era commons registration, submitting and tracking an application, documenting system problems that threaten submission by the due date, post submission issues)finding help online: http://grants.nih.gov/support/ (preferred method of contact) telephone: 301-402-7469 or 866-504-9552 (toll free)grants.gov customer support (questions regarding grants.gov registration and submission, downloading forms and application packages) contact center telephone: 800-518-4726 email: support@grants.govgrants info (questions regarding application instructions and process, finding nih grant resources) email: grantsinfo@nih.gov (preferred method of contact) telephone: 301-637-3015emily chewhealth scientist administratorcenter for quality improvement and patient safety agency for healthcare research and quality email: emily.chew@ahrq.hhs.govnghia vo, m.d. division of scientific review office of extramural research, education, and priority populations agency for healthcare research and quality email: nghia.vo@ahrq.hhs.govnicole williamsoffice of management services division of grants managementagency for healthcare research and qualityemail: nicole.williams@ahrq.hhs.govrecently issued ahrq policy notices may affect your application submission. a full list of policy notices published by ahrq is provided in the nih guide for grants and contracts. notices can also be found at ahrq grants policy notices. all awards are subject to the terms and conditions, cost principles, and other considerations described in the hhs grants policy statement. .this program is described in the assistance listings (formerly called the catalog of federal domestic assistance) at https://beta.sam.gov/help/assistance-listing and is not subject to the intergovernmental review requirements of executive order 12372 or health systems agency review.awards are made under the authority of 42 usc 299 et seq., and in accordance with 45 cfr part 75 and other referenced applicable statutes and regulations. all awards are subject to the terms and conditions, cost principles, and other considerations described in the hhs grants policy statement. the hhs grants policy statement can be found at http://www.ahrq.gov/fund/hhspolicy.htm.weekly toc for this announcement nih funding opportunities and noticesnote: for help accessing pdf, rtf, ms word, excel, powerpoint, audio or video files, see help downloading files.