Midcareer Investigator Award in Patient-Oriented Research (Parent K24 Independent Clinical Trial Not Allowed)
national institutes of health (nih) national heart, lung, and blood institute (nhlbi)national institute on aging (nia)national institute on alcohol abuse and alcoholism (niaaa)national institute of arthritis and musculoskeletal and skin diseases (niams)national institute of allergy and infectious diseases (niaid)national institute on deafness and other communication disorders (nidcd)national institute on drug abuse (nida)national institute of environmental health sciences (niehs)national institute of mental health (nimh)national institute of nursing research (ninr)national center for complementary and integrative health (nccih)special note: not all nih institutes and centers participate in parent announcements. applicants should carefully note which ics participate in this announcement and view their respective areas of research interest and requirements at the table of ic-specific information, requirements and staff contacts website. ics that do not participate in this announcement will not consider applications for funding. consultation with nih staff before submitting an application is strongly encouraged.midcareer investigator award in patient-oriented research (parent k24 independent clinical trial not allowed)k24 midcareer investigator award in patient-oriented researchreissue of pa-19-122 see notices of special interest associated with this funding opportunitymarch 2, 2023 - notice to extend the expiration date for all nih career development award (k) parent announcements. see notice not-od-23-096not-od-23-012 reminder: forms-h grant application forms and instructions must be used for due dates on or after january 25, 2023 - new grant application instructions now available not-od-22-190 - adjustments to nih and ahrq grant application due dates between september 22 and september 30, 2022 january 13, 2022 - notice of information: temporary extension of eligibility for nhlbi k24 applicants due to covid-19. see notice not-hl-22-007october 28, 2021 - reminder: forms-g grant application forms & instructions must be used for due dates on or after january 25, 2022 - new grant application instructions now available. see notice not-od-22-018.september 13, 2021 - updates to the non-discrimination legal requirements for nih recipients. see notice not-od-21-181. august 5, 2021 - new nih "forms-g" grant application forms and instructions coming for due dates on or after january 25, 2022. see notice not-od-21-169.august 5, 2021 - update: notification of upcoming change in federal-wide unique entity identifier requirements. see notice not-od-21-170april 20, 2021 - expanding requirement for era commons ids to all senior/key personnel. see notice not-od-21-109pa-20-186pa-20-192 midcareer investigator award in patient oriented research (parent k24 independent basic experimental studies with humans required)pa-20-193 midcareer investigator award in patient oriented research (parent k24 independent clinical trial required)see section iii. 3. additional information on eligibility. 93.213, 93.233, 93.837, 93.838, 93.839, 93.840, 93.866, 93.273, 93.855, 93.846, 93.279, 93.173, 93.113, 93.242, 93.361the purpose of the nih midcareer investigator award in patient-oriented research (k24) is to provide support to mid-career health-professional doctorates for protected time to devote to patient-oriented research (por) and to act as research mentors for junior clinical investigators pursuing por research, such as clinical residents and/or junior clinical faculty.this funding opportunity announcement (foa) is designed specifically for applicants proposing research that does not involve leading an independent clinical trial, a clinical trial feasibility study, or an ancillary clinical trial. applicants to this foa are permitted to propose research experience in a clinical trial led by another investigator. applicants proposing a clinical trial or an ancillary clinical trial as lead investigator, should apply to the companion foamay 6, 2020may 12, 2020not applicablestandard dates apply.the first standard application due date for this foa is june 12, 2020.all applications are due by 5:00 pm local time of applicant organization. all types of non-aids applications allowed for this funding opportunity announcement are due on the listed date(s). applications are encouraged to apply early to allow adequate time to make any corrections to errors found in the application during the submission process by the due date.standard aids dates apply.the first aids application due date for this foa is september 7, 2020.all applications are due by 5:00 pm local time of applicant organization. all types of aids and aids-related applications allowed for this funding opportunity announcement are due the listed date(s).applicants are encouraged to apply early to allow adequate time to make any corrections to errors found in the application during the submission process by the due date.standard dates applystandard dates applystandard dates applynew date may 8, 2024 (original date: may 8, 2023) per issuance of not-od-23-096not applicableit is critical that applicants follow the career development (k) instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, except where instructed to do otherwise (in this foa or in a notice from the nih guide for grants and contracts). conformance to all requirements (both in the application guide and the foa) is required and strictly enforced. applicants must read and follow all application instructions in the application guide as well as any program-specific instructions noted in section iv. when the program-specific instructions deviate from those in the application guide, follow the program-specific instructions. applications that do not comply with these instructions may be delayed or not accepted for review.there are several options available to submit your application through grants.gov to nih and department of health and human services partners. you must use one of these submission options to access the application forms for this opportunity.part 1. overview information part 2. full text of the announcementsection i. funding opportunity description section ii. award information section iii. eligibility information section iv. application and submission information section v. application review information section vi. award administration information section vii. agency contacts section viii. other informationthe overall goal of the nih research career development program is to help ensure that a diverse pool of highly trained scientists is available in appropriate scientific disciplines to address the nation's biomedical, behavioral, and clinical research needs. nih institutes and centers (ics) support a variety of mentored and non-mentored career development award programs designed to foster the transition of new investigators to research independence and to support established investigators in achieving specific objectives. candidates should review the different career development (k) award programs to determine the best program to support their goals. more information about career programs may be found at the nih research training and career development programs website.the nih midcareer investigator award in patient-oriented research (k24) is designed to enable mid-career clinician-scientists to:the k24 award is intended to provide protected time to mid-career clinical investigators to provide mentoring to junior clinical investigators, particularly k23 grantees, in por and to stabilize the careers of these investigators. the intent is to allow these investigators to continue to conduct por and be available as mentors in por. it is expected that a k24 recipient will obtain new or additional independent, peer-reviewed funding for por as a pd/pi and establish and assume leadership roles in collaborative por programs. in addition, it is expected that there will be an increased effort and commitment to act as a mentor to beginning clinician investigators in por to enhance the research productivity of both the k24 investigator and increase the pool of well-trained clinical researchers of the future.for the purposes of the k24 award, patient-oriented research is defined as research conducted with human subjects (or on material of human origin such as tissues, specimens and cognitive phenomena) for which an investigator (or colleague) directly interacts with human subjects. this area of research includes: (1) mechanisms of human disease; (2) therapeutic interventions; (3) clinical trials; and (4) the development of new technologies. excluded from this definition are in vitro studies that utilize human tissues but do not deal directly with patients. in other words, patient-oriented research is research in which it is necessary to know the identity of the patients from whom the cells or tissues under study are derived. studies falling under exemption 4 for human subjects research are not included in this definition. see also the nih director's panel on clinical research report.note: this funding opportunity announcement (foa) is designed specifically for applicants proposing research that does not involve leading an independent clinical trial, a clinical trial feasibility study, or an ancillary clinical trial. applicants to this foa are permitted to propose collaborating on a clinical trial led by another investigator. applicants proposing a clinical trial or an ancillary clinical trial as lead investigator, should apply to the companion foa. applicants to this foa are permitted to propose research experience in a clinical trial led by another investigator.special note: because of the differences in individual institute and center (ic) program requirements for this foa, prospective candidates are strongly encouraged to consult the table of ic-specific information, requirements and staff contacts, to make sure that their application is appropriate for the requirements of one of the participating nih ics.see section viii. other information for award authorities and regulations.grant: a support mechanism providing money, property, or both to an eligible entity to carry out an approved project or activity.new resubmission revision renewalthe oer glossary and the sf424 (r&r) application guide provide details on these application types. only those application types listed here are allowed for this foa.not allowed: only accepting applications that do not propose a clinical trial.note: applicants may propose to collaborate on a clinical trial led by another investigator as part of their activities under this award.need help determining whether you are doing a clinical trial?the number of awards is contingent upon nih appropriations and the submission of a sufficient number of meritorious applications.award budgets are composed of salary and other program-related expenses, as described below.the total project period may not exceed 5 years.the nih midcareer investigator award in patient-oriented research (k24) will provide salary for levels of effort between 3-6 person-months (or 25 and 50% full-time professional effort). the actual salary provided by the award is based on a full-time, 12-month appointment at the sponsoring institution, the pd/pis institutional salary, and the level of effort requested, up to the maximum legislated salary rate in effect at the time of award (see: https://grants.nih.gov/grants/policy/salcap_summary.htm).in addition, the candidate may derive additional compensation for effort associated with other federal sources or awards provided the total salary derived from all federal sources does not exceed the maximum legislated salary rate and the total percent effort does not exceed 100%.the nih will provide up to $50,000 per year for the following expenses: (a) research expenses, such as supplies, equipment and technical personnel for the pd/pi and/or those mentored by the pd/pi; (b) registration and/or travel to research-related courses and meetings; (c) statistical services including personnel and computer time.salary for secretarial and administrative assistants, etc. is not allowed.indirect costs (also known as facilities & administrative [f&a] costs) are reimbursed at 8% of modified total direct costs.nih grant policies as described in the nih grants policy statement will apply to the applications submitted and awards made from this foa.higher education institutionsthe following types of higher education institutions are always encouraged to apply for nih support as public or private institutions of higher education:nonprofits other than institutions of higher educationfor-profit organizationsgovernmentsothernon-domestic (non-u.s.) entities (foreign institutions) are not eligible to apply. non-domestic (non-u.s.) components of u.s. organizations are not eligible to apply. foreign components, as defined in the nih grants policy statement, are allowed.applicant organizationsapplicant organizations must complete and maintain the following registrations as described in the sf 424 (r&r) application guide to be eligible to apply for or receive an award. all registrations must be completed prior to the application being submitted. registration can take 6 weeks or more, so applicants should begin the registration process as soon as possible. the nih policy on late submission of grant applications states that failure to complete registrations in advance of a due date is not a valid reason for a late submission.program directors/principal investigators (pd(s)/pi(s))all pd(s)/pi(s) must have an era commons account. pd(s)/pi(s) should work with their organizational officials to either create a new account or to affiliate their existing account with the applicant organization in era commons. if the pd/pi is also the organizational signing official, they must have two distinct era commons accounts, one for each role. obtaining an era commons account can take up to 2 weeks.all pd(s)/pi(s) must be registered with orcid. the personal profile associated with the pd(s)/pi(s) era commons account must be linked to a valid orcid id. for more information on linking an orcid id to an era commons personal profile see the orcid topic in our era commons online help.any candidate with the skills, knowledge, and resources necessary to carry out the proposed research as the program director/principal investigator (pd/pi) is invited to work with his/her organization to develop an application for support. individuals from underrepresented racial and ethnic groups as well as individuals with disabilities are always encouraged to apply for nih support. multiple pds/pis are not allowed.by the time of award, the individual must be a citizen or a non-citizen national of the united states or have been lawfully admitted for permanent residence (i.e., possess a currently valid permanent resident card uscis form i-551, or other legal verification of such status).candidates for the k24 award must have a health-professional doctoral degree. such degrees include, but are not limited to, the md, do, dds, dmd, od, dc, pharmd, nd (doctor of naturopathy), as well as a doctoral degree in nursing research or practice. individuals with the phd or other doctoral degree in clinical disciplines such as clinical psychology, clinical genetics, speech-language pathology, audiology or rehabilitation are also eligible.candidates should typically be in the midcareer stage (e.g., at the associate professor level or functioning at that rank in an academic setting or equivalent non-academic setting) and must have an established record of independent, peer-reviewed patient-oriented research grant funding including at the time of application and record of publications. this award is intended for individuals who have a record of supervising and mentoring patient-oriented researchers. a k24 recipient who progresses to a more advanced career stage (e.g., promoted to full professor or another higher academic position) may retain the k24 award and remain eligible for a renewal provided that he/she continues to maintain an independent, peer-reviewed patient-oriented research program and mentor new investigators.this foa does not require cost sharing as defined in the nih grants policy statement.applicant organizations may submit more than one application, provided that each application is scientifically distinct, and each is from a different candidate.the nih will not accept duplicate or highly overlapping applications under review at the same time. an individual may not have two or more competing nih career development applications pending review concurrently. in addition, nih will not accept:candidates must be able to demonstrate the need for protected time, 3-6 person months (25-50% of full-time professional effort) for a period of intensive research focus as a means of augmenting their capabilities in por and ability to act as a mentor to new clinical investigators in the conduct of por during this period. candidates for the k24 award may not concurrently apply for any other phs career award or have another phs career award pending review.candidates who have va appointments may not consider part of the va effort toward satisfying the full time requirement at the applicant institution. candidates with va appointments should contact the staff person in the relevant institute or center prior to preparing an application to discuss their eligibility.after the receipt of the award, adjustments to the required level of effort may be made in certain circumstances. see not-od-09-036 for more details.renewalsdepending on the policies of the sponsoring nih institute/center, awardees may apply for a one-time renewal for an additional three to five years of support if the recipient continues to have independent peer-reviewed research support at the time of submission of the renewal application. candidates should clearly demonstrate their continuing need for protected time to expand their research programs.peer-reviewed research supportdepending on the policies of the sponsoring nih institute/center, candidates are expected to continue to hold independent peer-reviewed research support for the period of this award. candidates losing this support during the award period must document in their annual progress reports efforts to replace this support and demonstrate that they continue to meet all other requirements of the career award.institutional environmentthe applicant institution must have a strong, well-established record of research and career development activities and faculty qualified to serve as mentors in biomedical, behavioral, or clinical research.the application forms package specific to this opportunity must be accessed through assist, grants.gov workspace or an institutional system-to-system solution. links to apply using assist or grants.gov workspace are available in part 1 of this foa. see your administrative office for instructions if you plan to use an institutional system-to-system solution.it is critical that applicants follow the career development (k) instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, except where instructed in this funding opportunity announcement to do otherwise. conformance to the requirements in the application guide is required and strictly enforced. applications that are out of compliance with these instructions may be delayed or not accepted for review.all page limitations described in the sf424 (r&r) application guide and the table of page limits must be followed.note: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023, the data management and sharing (dms) plan will be attached in the other plan(s) attachment in forms-h and subsequent application forms packages. for due dates on or before january 24, 2023, the data sharing plan and genomic data sharing plan gds) will continue to be attached in the resource sharing plan attachment in forms-g application forms packages.the following section supplements the instructions found in the sf 424 (r&r) application guide and should be used for preparing an application to this foa.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followedall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.important reminder: the personal profile associated with the era commons username entered in the credential field for the pd/pi (candidate) must include an orcid id. for more information on linking an orcid id to an era commons personal profile see the orcid topic in our era commons online help.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.other plan(s):note: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023, the data management and sharing plan will be attached in the other plan(s) attachment in forms-h and subsequent application forms packages. for due dates on or before january 24, 2023, the data sharing plan and genomic data sharing plan gds) will continue to be attached in the resource sharing plan attachment in forms-g application forms packages.all applicants planning research (funded or conducted in whole or in part by nih) that results in the generation of scientific data are required to comply with the instructions for the data management and sharing plan. all applications, regardless of the amount of direct costs requested for any one year, must address a data management and sharing plan.the phs 398 career development award supplemental form is comprised of the following sections: candidate research plan other candidate information mentor, co-mentor, consultant, collaborators environment & institutional commitment to the candidate other research plan sections appendixall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed, with the following additional instructions:all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed, with the following additional instructions:candidate information and goals for career developmentcandidate’s backgroundcareer goals and objectivescandidate’s plan for career development/training activities during award periodresearch plan sectionall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed, with the following additional instructions:research strategytraining in the responsible conduct of researchother candidate information section candidate's plan to provide mentoringmentor, co-mentor, consultant, collaborators sectionall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed, with the following additional instructions:plans and statements of mentor and co-mentor(s)letters of support from collaborators, contributors and consultantsenvironmental and institutional commitment to the candidateall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed, with the following additional instructions:description of institutional environmentinstitutional commitment to the candidate’s research career developmentappendixlimited items are allowed in the appendix. follow all instructions for the appendix as described in the sf424 (r&r) application guide; any instructions provided here are in addition to the sf424 (r&r) application guide instructions.when involving human subjects research, clinical research, and/or nih-defined clinical trials (and when applicable, clinical trials research experience) follow all instructions for the phs human subjects and clinical trials information form in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, with the following additional instructions:if you answered “yes” to the question “are human subjects involved?” on the r&r other project information form, you must include at least one human subjects study record using the study record: phs human subjects and clinical trials information form or a delayed onset study record.study record: phs human subjects and clinical trials informationall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed with the following additional instructions:delayed onset studynote: delayed onset does not apply to a study that can be described but will not start immediately (i.e., delayed start).all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.see part 1. section iii.1 for information regarding the requirement for obtaining a unique entity identifier and for completing and maintaining active registrations in system for award management (sam), nato commercial and government entity (ncage) code (if applicable), era commons, and grants.gov.part i. overview information contains information about key dates and times. applicants are encouraged to submit applications before the due date to ensure they have time to make any application corrections that might be necessary for successful submission. when a submission date falls on a weekend or federal holiday, the application deadline is automatically extended to the next business day.organizations must submit applications to grants.gov (the online portal to find and apply for grants across all federal agencies) using assist or other electronic submission systems. applicants must then complete the submission process by tracking the status of the application in the era commons, nih’s electronic system for grants administration. nih and grants.gov systems check the application against many of the application instructions upon submission. errors must be corrected and a changed/corrected application must be submitted to grants.gov on or before the application due date. and time. if a changed/corrected application is submitted after the deadline, the application will be considered late. applications that miss the due date and time are subjected to the nih policy on late application submission.applicants are responsible for viewing their application before the due date in the era commons to ensure accurate and successful submission.information on the submission process and a definition of on-time submission are provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.this initiative is not subject to intergovernmental review.all nih awards are subject to the terms and conditions, cost principles, and other considerations described in the nih grants policy statement.pre-award costs are allowable only as described in the nih grants policy statement.applications must be submitted electronically following the instructions described in the sf424 (r&r) application guide. paper applications will not be accepted.applicants must complete all required registrations before the application due date. section iii. eligibility information contains information about registration.for assistance with your electronic application or for more information on the electronic submission process, visit how to apply – application guide. if you encounter a system issue beyond your control that threatens your ability to complete the submission process on-time, you must follow the dealing with system issues guidance. for assistance with application submission contact the application submission contacts in section vii.important reminders:all pd(s)/pi(s) must include their era commons id in the credential field of the senior/key person profile component of the sf424(r&r) application package. failure to register in the commons and to include a valid pd/pi commons id in the credential field will prevent the successful submission of an electronic application to nih.the applicant organization must ensure that the duns number it provides on the application is the same number used in the organization’s profile in the era commons and for the system for award management (sam). additional information may be found in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.see more tips for avoiding common errors.upon receipt, applications will be evaluated for completeness and compliance with application instructions by the center for scientific review, nih. applications that are incomplete or non-compliant will not be reviewed.applicants are required to follow the instructions for post-submission materials, as described in the policy. any instructions provided here are in addition to the instructions in the policy.note: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023, the data sharing plan and genomic data sharing plan (gds) as part of the resource sharing plan will not be evaluated at time of review.only the review criteria described below will be considered in the review process. applications submitted to the nih in support of the nih mission are evaluated for scientific and technical merit through the nih peer review system.reviewers should provide their assessment of the likelihood that the proposed career development and research plan will enhance the candidate’s potential for a productive, independent scientific research career in a health-related field, taking into consideration the criteria below in determining the overall impact score.reviewers will consider each of the review criteria below in the determination of scientific merit, and give a separate score for each. an application does not need to be strong in all categories to be judged likely to have major scientific impact.candidateplan to provide mentoringresearch planconsultant(s), collaborator(s)is adequate information provided that clearly documents expertise in the proposed area(s) of consulting/collaboration?environment & institutional commitment to the candidateas applicable for the project proposed, reviewers will evaluate the following additional items while determining scientific and technical merit, and in providing an overall impact score, but will not give separate scores for these items.for research that involves human subjects but does not involve one of the categories of research that are exempt under 45 cfr part 46, the committee will evaluate the justification for involvement of human subjects and the proposed protections from research risk relating to their participation according to the following five review criteria: (1) risk to subjects, (2) adequacy of protection against risks, (3) potential benefits to the subjects and others, (4) importance of the knowledge to be gained, and (5) data and safety monitoring for clinical trials.for research that involves human subjects and meets the criteria for one or more of the categories of research that are exempt under 45 cfr part 46, the committee will evaluate: (1) the justification for the exemption, (2) human subjects involvement and characteristics, and (3) sources of materials. for additional information on review of the human subjects section, please refer to the guidelines for the review of human subjects.when the proposed project involves human subjects and/or nih-defined clinical research, the committee will evaluate the proposed plans for the inclusion (or exclusion) of individuals on the basis of sex/gender, race, and ethnicity, as well as the inclusion (or exclusion) of individuals across the lifespan (including children and older adults) to determine if it is justified in terms of the scientific goals and research strategy proposed. for additional information on review of the inclusion section, please refer to the guidelines for the review of inclusion in clinical research.the committee will evaluate the involvement of live vertebrate animals as part of the scientific assessment according to the following criteria: (1) description of proposed procedures involving animals, including species, strains, ages, sex, and total number to be used; (2) justifications for the use of animals versus alternative models and for the appropriateness of the species proposed; (3) interventions to minimize discomfort, distress, pain and injury; and (4) justification for euthanasia method if not consistent with the avma guidelines for the euthanasia of animals. reviewers will assess the use of chimpanzees as they would any other application proposing the use of vertebrate animals. for additional information on review of the vertebrate animals section, please refer to the worksheet for review of the vertebrate animal section.reviewers will assess whether materials or procedures proposed are potentially hazardous to research personnel and/or the environment, and if needed, determine whether adequate protection is proposed.for resubmissions, the committee will evaluate the application as now presented, taking into consideration the responses to comments from the previous scientific review group and changes made to the project. for renewals, the committee will consider the progress made in the last funding period.for revisions, the committee will consider the appropriateness of the proposed expansion of the scope of the project. if the revision application relates to a specific line of investigation presented in the original application that was not recommended for approval by the committee, then the committee will consider whether the responses to comments from the previous scientific review group are adequate and whether substantial changes are clearly evident.note: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023, the data sharing plan and genomic data sharing plan (gds) as part of the resource sharing plan will not be evaluated at time of review.as applicable for the project proposed, reviewers will consider each of the following items, but will not give scores for these items, and should not consider them in providing an overall impact score.all applications for support under this foa must include a plan to fulfill nih requirements for instruction in the responsible conduct of research (rcr). taking into account the level of experience of the candidate, including any prior instruction or participation in rcr as appropriate for the candidate’s career stage, the reviewers will evaluate the adequacy of the proposed rcr training in relation to the following five required components: 1) format - the required format of instruction, i.e., face-to-face lectures, coursework, and/or real-time discussion groups (a plan with only on-line instruction is not acceptable); 2) subject matter - the breadth of subject matter, e.g., conflict of interest, authorship, data management, human subjects and animal use, laboratory safety, research misconduct, research ethics; 3) faculty participation - the role of the mentor(s) and other faculty involvement in the fellow’s instruction; 4) duration of instruction - the number of contact hours of instruction (at least eight contact hours are required); and 5) frequency of instruction –instruction must occur during each career stage and at least once every four years. plans and past record will be rated as acceptable or unacceptable, and the summary statement will provide the consensus of the review committee. see also: not-od-10-019.reviewers will assess the information provided in this section of the application, including (1) the select agent(s) to be used in the proposed research, (2) the registration status of all entities where select agent(s) will be used, (3) the procedures that will be used to monitor possession use and transfer of select agent(s), and (4) plans for appropriate biosafety, biocontainment, and security of the select agent(s).reviewers will comment on whether the following resource sharing plans, or the rationale for not sharing the following types of resources, are reasonable: (1) data sharing plan; (2) sharing model organisms; and (3) genomic data sharing plan (gds).for projects involving key biological and/or chemical resources, reviewers will comment on the brief plans proposed for identifying and ensuring the validity of those resources.reviewers will consider whether the budget and the requested period of support are fully justified and reasonable in relation to the proposed research.applications will be evaluated for scientific and technical merit by (an) appropriate scientific review group(s), in accordance with nih peer review policy and procedures, using the stated review criteria. assignment to a scientific review group will be shown in the era commons.as part of the scientific peer review, all applications:applications will be assigned on the basis of established phs referral guidelines to the appropriate nih institute or center. applications will compete for available funds with all other recommended applications. following initial peer review, recommended applications will receive a second level of review by the appropriate national advisory council or board. the following will be considered in making funding decisions:after the peer review of the application is completed, the pd/pi will be able to access his or her summary statement (written critique) via the era commons. refer to part 1 for dates for peer review, advisory council review, and earliest start dateinformation regarding the disposition of applications is available in the nih grants policy statement.if the application is under consideration for funding, nih will request "just-in-time" information from the applicant as described in the nih grants policy statement.a formal notification in the form of a notice of award (noa) will be provided to the applicant organization for successful applications. the noa signed by the grants management officer is the authorizing document and will be sent via email to the grantee’s business official.awardees must comply with any funding restrictions described in section iv.5. funding restrictions. selection of an application for award is not an authorization to begin performance. any costs incurred before receipt of the noa are at the recipient's risk. these costs may be reimbursed only to the extent considered allowable pre-award costs.any application awarded in response to this foa will be subject to terms and conditions found on the award conditions and information for nih grants website. this includes any recent legislation and policy applicable to awards that is highlighted on this website.all nih grant and cooperative agreement awards include the nih grants policy statement as part of the noa. for these terms of award, see the nih grants policy statement part ii: terms and conditions of nih grant awards, subpart a: general and part ii: terms and conditions of nih grant awards, subpart b: terms and conditions for specific types of grants, grantees, and activities. more information is provided at award conditions and information for nih grants. more specifically, for k awards, visit the research career development (“k”) awardees section of the nih grants policy statement.recipients of federal financial assistance (ffa) from hhs must administer their programs in compliance with federal civil rights laws that prohibit discrimination on the basis of race, color, national origin, disability, age and, in some circumstances, religion, conscience, and sex. this includes ensuring programs are accessible to persons with limited english proficiency. the hhs office for civil rights provides guidance on complying with civil rights laws enforced by hhs. please see https://www.hhs.gov/civil-rights/for-providers/provider-obligations/index.html and http://www.hhs.gov/ocr/civilrights/understanding/section1557/index.html.hhs recognizes that research projects are often limited in scope for many reasons that are nondiscriminatory, such as the principal investigator’s scientific interest, funding limitations, recruitment requirements, and other considerations. thus, criteria in research protocols that target or exclude certain populations are warranted where nondiscriminatory justifications establish that such criteria are appropriate with respect to the health or safety of the subjects, the scientific study design, or the purpose of the research. for additional guidance regarding how the provisions apply to nih grant programs, please contact the scientific/research contact that is identified in section vii under agency contacts of this foa.please contact the hhs office for civil rights for more information about obligations and prohibitions under federal civil rights laws at https://www.hhs.gov/ocr/about-us/contact-us/index.html or call 1-800-368-1019 or tdd 1-800-537-7697.in accordance with the statutory provisions contained in section 872 of the duncan hunter national defense authorization act of fiscal year 2009 (public law 110-417), nih awards will be subject to the federal awardee performance and integrity information system (fapiis) requirements. fapiis requires federal award making officials to review and consider information about an applicant in the designated integrity and performance system (currently fapiis) prior to making an award. an applicant, at its option, may review information in the designated integrity and performance systems accessible through fapiis and comment on any information about itself that a federal agency previously entered and is currently in fapiis. the federal awarding agency will consider any comments by the applicant, in addition to other information in fapiis, in making a judgement about the applicant’s integrity, business ethics, and record of performance under federal awards when completing the review of risk posed by applicants as described in 45 cfr part 75.205 “federal awarding agency review of risk posed by applicants.” this provision will apply to all nih grants and cooperative agreements except fellowships.data management and sharingnote: the nih policy for data management and sharing is effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023.consistent with the nih policy for data management and sharing, when data management and sharing is applicable to the award, recipients will be required to adhere to the data management and sharing requirements as outlined in the nih grants policy statement. upon the approval of a data management and sharing plan, it is required for recipients to implement the plan as described.when multiple years are involved, awardees will be required to submit the research performance progress report (rppr) annually and financial statements as required in the nih grants policy statement. the supplemental instructions for individual career development (k) rpprs must be followed. the mentor’s report must include an annual evaluation statement of the candidate’s progress.a final rppr, invention statement, and the expenditure data portion of the federal financial report are required for closeout of an award, as described in the nih grants policy statement.the federal funding accountability and transparency act of 2006 (transparency act), includes a requirement for awardees of federal grants to report information about first-tier subawards and executive compensation under federal assistance awards issued in fy2011 or later. all awardees of applicable nih grants and cooperative agreements are required to report to the federal subaward reporting system (fsrs) available at www.fsrs.gov on all subawards over $25,000. see the nih grants policy statement for additional information on this reporting requirement.in accordance with the regulatory requirements provided at 45 cfr 75.113 and appendix xii to 45 cfr part 75, recipients that have currently active federal grants, cooperative agreements, and procurement contracts from all federal awarding agencies with a cumulative total value greater than $10,000,000 for any period of time during the period of performance of a federal award, must report and maintain the currency of information reported in the system for award management (sam) about civil, criminal, and administrative proceedings in connection with the award or performance of a federal award that reached final disposition within the most recent five-year period. the recipient must also make semiannual disclosures regarding such proceedings. proceedings information will be made publicly available in the designated integrity and performance system (currently fapiis). this is a statutory requirement under section 872 of public law 110-417, as amended (41 u.s.c. 2313). as required by section 3010 of public law 111-212, all information posted in the designated integrity and performance system on or after april 15, 2011, except past performance reviews required for federal procurement contracts, will be publicly available. full reporting requirements and procedures are found in appendix xii to 45 cfr part 75 – award term and conditions for recipient integrity and performance matters.in carrying out its stewardship of human resource-related programs, the nih may request information essential to an assessment of the effectiveness of this program from databases and from participants themselves. participants may be contacted after the completion of this award for periodic updates on various aspects of their employment history, publications, support from research grants or contracts, honors and awards, professional activities, and other information helpful in evaluating the impact of the program.we encourage inquiries concerning this funding opportunity and welcome the opportunity to answer questions from potential applicants.because of the difference in individual institute and center (ic) program requirements for this foa, prospective applications must consult the table of ic-specific information, requirements, and staff contacts, to make sure that their application is responsive to the requirements of one of the participating nih ics. prior consultation with nih staff is strongly encouraged.era service desk (questions regarding assist, era commons, application errors and warnings, documenting system problems that threaten submission by the due date, and post submission issues) finding help online: http://grants.nih.gov/support/ (preferred method of contact) telephone: 301-402-7469 or 866-504-9552 (toll free)grantsinfo (questions regarding application instructions, application processes, and nih grant resources) email: grantsinfo@nih.gov (preferred method of contact) telephone: 301-637-3015grants.gov customer support (questions regarding grants.gov registration and workspace) contact center telephone: 800-518-4726 email: support@grants.govsee table of ic-specific information, requirements and staff contacts.examine your era commons account for review assignment and contact information (information appears two weeks after the submission due date).see table of ic-specific information, requirements and staff contacts.recently issued trans-nih policy notices may affect your application submission. a full list of policy notices published by nih is provided in the nih guide for grants and contracts. all awards are subject to the terms and conditions, cost principles, and other considerations described in the nih grants policy statement.awards are made under the authorization of sections 301 and 405 of the public health service act as amended (42 usc 241 and 284) and under federal regulations 42 cfr part 52 and 45 cfr part 75. weekly toc for this announcement nih funding opportunities and noticesnote: for help accessing pdf, rtf, ms word, excel, powerpoint, audio or video files, see help downloading files.