NIH Support for Conferences and Scientific Meetings (Parent R13 Clinical Trial Not Allowed)
https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/pa-files/PA-21-151.html
national institutes of health (nih)national institutes of health (nih) national eye institute (nei) national heart, lung, and blood institute (nhlbi) national human genome research institute (nhgri) national institute on aging (nia) national institute on alcohol abuse and alcoholism (niaaa) national institute of allergy and infectious diseases (niaid) national institute of arthritis and musculoskeletal and skin diseases (niams) national institute of biomedical imaging and bioengineering (nibib) eunice kennedy shriver national institute of child health and human development (nichd) national institute on deafness and other communication disorders (nidcd) national institute of dental and craniofacial research (nidcr) national institute of diabetes and digestive and kidney diseases (niddk) national institute on drug abuse (nida) national institute of environmental health sciences (niehs) national institute of general medical sciences (nigms) national institute of mental health (nimh) national institute of neurological disorders and stroke (ninds) national institute on minority health and health disparities (nimhd) national library of medicine (nlm) national center for complementary and integrative health (nccih) national center for advancing translational sciences (ncats) division of program coordination, planning and strategic initiatives, office of research infrastructure programs (orip) office of strategic coordination (common fund) national cancer institute (nci)national eye institute (nei)national heart, lung, and blood institute (nhlbi)national human genome research institute (nhgri)national institute on aging (nia)national institute on alcohol abuse and alcoholism (niaaa)national institute of allergy and infectious diseases (niaid)national institute of arthritis and musculoskeletal and skin diseases (niams)national institute of biomedical imaging and bioengineering (nibib)eunice kennedy shriver national institute of child health and human development (nichd)national institute on deafness and other communication disorders (nidcd)national institute of dental and craniofacial research (nidcr)national institute of diabetes and digestive and kidney diseases (niddk)national institute on drug abuse (nida)national institute of environmental health sciences (niehs)national institute of general medical sciences (nigms)national institute of mental health (nimh)national institute of neurological disorders and stroke (ninds)national institute on minority health and health disparities (nimhd)national library of medicine (nlm)national center for complementary and integrative health (nccih)national center for advancing translational sciences (ncats)division of program coordination, planning and strategic initiatives, office of research infrastructure programs (orip)office of strategic coordination (common fund)national cancer institute (nci)r13 support for conferences and scientific meetings see notices of special interest associated with this funding opportunitynot-od-23-012 reminder: forms-h grant application forms and instructions must be used for due dates on or after january 25, 2023 - new grant application instructions now available not-od-22-190 - adjustments to nih and ahrq grant application due dates between september 22 and september 30, 2022 march 21, 2022 - notice of change to assistance listing number(s) for pa-21-151. see notice not-es-22-008.february 10, 2022 - plans to promote safe environments at conferences supported by nih grants and cooperative agreements. see notice not-od-22-074.october 28, 2021 - reminder: forms-g grant application forms & instructions must be used for due dates on or after january 25, 2022 - new grant application instructions now available. see notice not-od-22-018.september 13, 2021 - updates to the non-discrimination legal requirements for nih recipients. see notice not-od-21-181. august 5, 2021 - new nih "forms-g" grant application forms and instructions coming for due dates on or after january 25, 2022. see notice not-od-21-169.august 5, 2021 - update: notification of upcoming change in federal-wide unique entity identifier requirements. see notice not-od-21-170april 20, 2021 - expanding requirement for era commons ids to all senior/key personnel. see notice not-od-21-109 not-od-21-053 - updated guidelines for enhancing diversity and creating safe environments in conferences supported by nih grants and cooperative agreementssee section iii. 3. additional information on eligibility.the purpose of the nih research conference grant (r13) is to support high quality conferences that are relevant to the public health and to the scientific mission of the participating institutes and centers.not applicableall applications are due by 5:00 pm local time of applicant organization. all types of non-aids applications allowed for this funding opportunity announcement are due on the listed date(s).applicants are encouraged to apply early to allow adequate time to make any corrections to errors found in the application during the submission process by the due date.not applicableit is critical that applicants follow the instructions in the research (r) instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, except where instructed to do otherwise (in this foa or in a notice from nih guide for grants and contracts).conformance to all requirements (both in the application guide and the foa) is required and strictly enforced. applicants must read and follow all application instructions in the application guide as well as any program-specific instructions noted in section iv. when the program-specific instructions deviate from those in the application guide, follow the program-specific instructions.applications that do not comply with these instructions may be delayed or not accepted for review.there are several options available to submit your application through grants.gov to nih and department of health and human services partners. you must use one of these submission options to access the application forms for this opportunity.the purpose of the nih research conference grant (r13) is to support high quality scientific conferences that are relevant to the nih's mission and to the public health. a conference is defined as a symposium, seminar, workshop, or any other organized and formal meeting, whether conducted face-to-face or via the internet, where individuals assemble (or meet virtually) for the primary purpose to exchange technical information and views or explore or clarify a defined subject, problem, or area of knowledge, whether or not a published report results from such meeting. the nih recognizes the value to members of the research community and all other interested parties in supporting such forums.the nih recognizes that the value of conferences is enhanced when persons from diverse backgrounds and perspectives are included in all aspects of conference/meeting planning and when attendees are assured of a safe, respectful, and inclusive environment free from discrimination, harassment, and other barriers that might prevent or inhibit one’s participation. nih encourages conference grant applicants to enhance diversity by increasing the participation of individuals from diverse backgrounds, including those from underrepresented groups, in the planning and implementation, and ultimately, participation in the proposed conference. per nih notice of interest in diversity not-od-20-031, underrepresented groups include individuals from nationally (us) underrepresented racial and ethnic groups, individuals with disabilities, individuals from disadvantaged backgrounds, and women. applications for nih support of conferences and scientific meetings must include a plan to enhance diversity in all aspects of conference planning and implementation. diversity plans will be assessed during the scientific and technical merit review of the application. though the proposed plans will not be scored individually, they will be considered in the overall impact score (see updated guidelines on enhancing diversity and creating safe environments in conferences supported by nih grants and cooperative agreements, not-od-21-053).nih is also committed to changing the culture of science to end sexual harassment and other forms of harassment, including harassment on the basis of race, color, national origin, sex/gender, disability, and age in nih-funded activities. harassment, in any form, is detrimental and presents obstacles that hinder an individual’s ability to fully participate in science. only in safe, respectful, and inclusive environments can individuals achieve their fullest potential and support the mission of the nih. as stated in not-od-15-152, civil rights protections in nih-supported research, programs, conferences and other activities, consistent with existing federal civil rights laws, it is expected that organizers of nih-supported conferences and scientific meetings take steps to maintain a safe and respectful environment for all attendees by providing an environment free from all forms of discrimination and harassment, sexual or otherwise. it is expected that organizers of nih-supported conferences employ strategies that seek to prevent or mitigate the effects of discrimination and harassment, sexual and otherwise. below are examples of strategies, which are not inclusive of all strategies, that could be employed to support a safe environment (conference organizers should consider additional strategies as appropriate):additionally, all nih sponsored and/or supported conferences must be held at accessible sites, as outlined by section 504 of the rehabilitation act of 1973 and, as applicable, the americans with disabilities act of 1990. conference registration materials should provide a questionnaire that will allow participants with disabilities to voluntarily identify any special needs, so that conference organizers can make plans to accommodate these needs.support of conferences is contingent on the fiscal and programmatic interests and priorities of the individual nih institutes and centers (ics). therefore, a conference grant application is required to contain a permission-to-submit letter from any one of the participating ics' conference grant contact person (see contacts list). applicants are urged to initiate contact well in advance of the chosen application due date and no later than 6 weeks before that date. please note that agreement to accept an application does not guarantee funding. in general, nih will not issue a conference grant award unless the federal award date can precede the conference start date.the website, nih support for conferences and scientific meetings ,centralizes information regarding grants for scientific conferences. the contacts and special interests section of that website includes contact information for the participating ics as well as information about each ic's specific interests and funding parameters.note: applicants are encouraged to look at the r13 frequently asked questions for a listing of common questions regarding the preparation and submission of conference grant applications.see section viii. other information for award authorities and regulations.grant: a support mechanism providing money, property, or both to an eligible entity to carry out an approved project or activity.the oer glossary and the sf424 (r&r) application guide provide details on these application types. only those application types listed here are allowed for this foa.not allowed: only accepting applications that do not propose clinical trials.need help determining whether you are doing a clinical trial?the number of awards is contingent upon nih appropriations and the submission of a sufficient number of meritorious applications.application budgets are not limited but need to reflect the actual needs of the proposed project. the appropriate nih conference grant contact should be consulted for guidance regarding any ic-specific budget limitations.most ics will accept applications for up to 5 years of support when a series of annual or biannual conferences are proposed by a permanently sponsoring organization. support for conferences held on a less frequent schedule must be applied for individually.the appropriate nih conference grant contact should be consulted for guidance regarding any ic-specific project duration requirement.nih grants policies as described in the nih grants policy statement will apply to the applications submitted and awards made from this foa.higher education institutionsthe following types of higher education institutions are always encouraged to apply for nih support as public or private institutions of higher education:nonprofits other than institutions of higher educationfor-profit organizationslocal governmentsfederal governmentsotherdomestic institutions or organizations, including established scientific or professional societies, are eligible to apply for conference support. foreign organizations are not eligible to apply for conference support. both domestic and international conferences may be supported; however, an international conference can be supported only through the u.s. representative organization of an established international scientific or professional society. an individual is not eligible to receive a grant in support of a conference.non-domestic (non-u.s.) entities (foreign institutions) are not eligible to apply.non-domestic (non-u.s.) components of u.s. organizations are not eligible to apply.foreign components, as defined in the nih grants policy statement, are allowed.applicant organizationsapplicant organizations must complete and maintain the following registrations as described in the sf 424 (r&r) application guide to be eligible to apply for or receive an award. all registrations must be completed prior to the application being submitted. registration can take 6 weeks or more, so applicants should begin the registration process as soon as possible. the nih policy on late submission of grant applications states that failure to complete registrations in advance of a due date is not a valid reason for a late submission.program directors/principal investigators (pd(s)/pi(s))all pd(s)/pi(s) must have an era commons account. pd(s)/pi(s) should work with their organizational officials to either create a new account or to affiliate their existing account with the applicant organization in era commons. if the pd/pi is also the organizational signing official, they must have two distinct era commons accounts, one for each role. obtaining an era commons account can take up to 2 weeks.any individual(s) with the skills, knowledge, and resources necessary to carry out the proposed conference as the program director(s)/principal investigator(s) (pd(s)/pi(s)) is invited to work with his/her organization to develop an application for support. individuals from underrepresented racial and ethnic groups as well as individuals with disabilities are always encouraged to apply for nih support.for institutions/organizations proposing multiple pds/pis, visit the multiple program director/principal investigator policy and submission details in the senior/key person profile (expanded) component of the sf424 (r&r) application guide.this foa does not require cost sharing as defined in the nih grants policy statement.number of applicationsapplicant organizations may submit more than one application, provided that each application is scientifically distinct.the nih will not accept duplicate or highly overlapping applications under review at the same time. this means that the nih will not accept:buttons to access the online assist system or to download application forms are available in part 1 of this foa. see your administrative office for instructions if you plan to use an institutional system-to-system solution.for information on application submission and receipt, visit frequently asked questions – application guide, electronic submission of grant applications.all page limitations described in the sf424 application guide and the table of page limits must be followed. additionally, the diversity plan attachment must not exceed one-page in length.note: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023 a data management and sharing plan is not applicable for this foa.the following section supplements the instructions found in the sf424 (r&r) application guide and should be used for preparing an application to this foa.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed. descriptive title of applicant's project: enter the title of the scientific conference.cover letter: advance permission to submit an application is required for all nih conference grant applications, including new, resubmission, renewal, and revision applications. cover letters for a new application cannot be recycled for a resubmission or revision; rather a new letter is required. advance permission to submit an application should be requested early in the process and no later than six weeks before the application due date. all applicants must include the permission-to-submit letter from the nih conference grant contact who has agreed to accept assignment of the application. applications that do not include the permission-to-submit letter will not be accepted for review. note that advance permission to submit an application does not guarantee funding.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed, with the following additional instructions:other attachments: diversity planapplicants must include a diversity plan attachment in the other attachment section. the pdf-formatted document must be named “diversityplan.pdf” ( no spaces) and must not exceed 1 page in length. applications that do not include a diversity plan attachment will not be accepted for review. the diversity plan must:specifically describe plans to enhance diversity by increasing the participation of individuals from diverse backgrounds, including those from underrepresented groups (e.g., underrepresented racial and ethnic groups, individuals with disabilities, individuals from disadvantaged backgrounds, and women) in the selection of and/or the makeup of:applicants should consider the geographical conference area from where anticipated participants will come (i.e., national, statewide), the expected size and composition of the audience, as well as the method of selection in describing efforts under the diversity plan and how these efforts will be assessed afterwards. where applicable, applicants should describe the success of previous strategies to enhance diversity in the planning and implementation of conferences.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed, with the following additional instructions:describe in the personal statement of the biographical sketch senior/key persons’ past experiences with enhancing diversity by increasing the participation of individuals from diverse backgrounds, including those from underrepresented groups, in biomedical sciences.r&r budgetall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed with the following additional instructions. the appropriate nih ic conference award contact should be consulted for guidance regarding any ic-specific budget requirements. enter the direct costs requested. facilities and administrative (f&a) costs are not allowed. provide a narrative justification for each proposed personnel position, including the role of the individual in the conference and the proposed level of effort. include information regarding efforts to obtain funding for this conference from other sources.allowable costs: salary (in proportion to the time or effort spent directly on the conference); rental of necessary equipment; travel and per diem or subsistence allowances; supplies needed for conduct of the conference (only if received for use during the budget period); conference services; publication costs; funds to help defray registration costs for some select attendees; speakers' feesnon-allowable costs: meals/food and beverages; purchase of equipment; transportation costs exceeding u.s. carrier coach class fares; visas; passports; entertainment and personal expenses (such as tips; bar charges; personal telephone calls; laundry charges) dues; honoraria or other payments for the purpose of conferring distinction or communicating respect, esteem or admiration; patient care; alterations or renovations; local participants' expenses; facilities and administrative costs/indirect costs.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed, with the following additional instructions:research strategy: note that this section will be called "conference plan" in the system-generated table of contents.describe the objectives, specific program, and logistical arrangements for the conference. describe the format and list the agenda and speakers, including the principal topics to be covered, problems to be addressed, and developments or contributions the conference might stimulate. provide a detailed justification for the conference, including the scientific need, timeliness, and usefulness of the conference to the scientific community.attendance for some individuals will be dependent on the availability of resources for family care. the application should describe plans to identify resources for childcare and other types of family care at or in close proximity to the conference site to allow individuals with family care responsibilities to attend. the information should allow attendees to make arrangements for family care as needed.describe the composition and role of the organizing committee, and provide the names and credentials of key participants (i.e. speakers, presenters, session moderators) in the conference, including the basis for their selection. estimate anticipated geographic conference area where participants will come from (i.e., national, statewide), the expected size and composition of the audience, as well as the method of selection.describe plans for publicizing the conference to all interested participants and, if applicable, for publishing the proceedings (note that publishing proceedings is not required). identify related conferences held on the subject during the past 3 years and how the proposed conference is similar to and/or different from these, and why it is still necessary and useful. if this is one in a series of periodic conferences held by a permanent sponsoring organization, briefly describe and evaluate the last conference in the series.applications requesting multiple years of support must provide the following additional information for each future year requested, in as much detail as possible:letters of support: provide letters documenting the participation of the key conference participants, e.g. speakers, presenters, session moderators.resource sharing plan: individuals are required to comply with the instructions for the resource sharing plans as provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.the following modifications also apply:no appendix materials are allowed.when involving human subjects research, clinical research, and/or nih-defined clinical trials (and when applicable, clinical trials research experience) follow all instructions for the phs human subjects and clinical trials information form in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, with the following additional instructions:if you answered “yes” to the question “are human subjects involved?” on the r&r other project information form, you must include at least one human subjects study record using the study record: phs human subjects and clinical trials information form or delayed onset study record.study record: phs human subjects and clinical trials informationall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.delayed onset studynote: delayed onset does not apply to a study that can be described but will not start immediately (i.e., delayed start). all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.see part 1. section iii.1 for information regarding the requirement for obtaining a unique entity identifier and for completing and maintaining active registrations in system for award management (sam), nato commercial and government entity (ncage) code (if applicable), era commons, and grants.gov.part i. overview information contains information about key dates and times. applicants are encouraged to submit applications before the due date to ensure they have time to make any application corrections that might be necessary for successful submission. when a submission date falls on a weekend or federal holiday, the application deadline is automatically extended to the next business day.organizations must submit applications to grants.gov (the online portal to find and apply for grants across all federal agencies). applicants must then complete the submission process by tracking the status of the application in the era commons, nih’s electronic system for grants administration. nih and grants.gov systems check the application against many of the application instructions upon submission. errors must be corrected and a changed/corrected application must be submitted to grants.gov on or before the application due date and time. if a changed/corrected application is submitted after the deadline, the application will be considered late. applications that miss the due date and time are subjected to the nih policy on late application submission.applicants are responsible for viewing their application before the due date in the era commons to ensure accurate and successful submission.information on the submission process and a definition of on-time submission are provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.this initiative is not subject to intergovernmental review.all nih awards are subject to the terms and conditions, cost principles, and other considerations described in the nih grants policy statement.pre-award costs are allowable only as described in the nih grants policy statement.applications must be submitted electronically following the instructions described in the sf424 (r&r) application guide. paper applications will not be accepted.applicants must complete all required registrations before the application due date. section iii. eligibility information contains information about registration.for assistance with your electronic application or for more information on the electronic submission process, visit how to apply – application guide. if you encounter a system issue beyond your control that threatens your ability to complete the submission process on-time, you must follow the dealing with system issues guidance. for assistance with application submission, contact the application submission contacts in section vii.important reminders:all pd(s)/pi(s) must include their era commons id in the credential field of the senior/key person profile component of the sf424(r&r) application package. failure to register in the commons and to include a valid pd/pi commons id in the credential field will prevent the successful submission of an electronic application to nih. see section iii of this foa for information on registration requirements.the applicant organization must ensure that the duns number it provides on the application is the same number used in the organization’s profile in the era commons and for the system for award management. additional information may be found in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.see more tips for avoiding common errors.upon receipt, applications will be evaluated for completeness and compliance with application instructions by the center for scientific review, nih. applications that are incomplete or non-compliant will not be reviewed.applicants are required to follow the instructions for post-submission materials, as described in the policy. any instructions provided here are in addition to the instructions in the policy.only the review criteria described below will be considered in the review process. applications submitted to the nih in support of the nih mission are evaluated for scientific and technical merit through the nih peer review system.after considering all of the review criteria, briefly summarize the significant strengths and weaknesses of the application and judge the likelihood that the proposed conference will have a substantial impact on the pursuit of the goals of nih supported research, which are to advance our understanding of biological systems, to improve the control of disease, and to enhance health.reviewers will consider each of the review criteria below in the determination of scientific merit, and give a separate score for each. an application does not need to be strong in all categories to be judged likely to have major scientific impact. for example, a project that by its nature is not innovative may be essential to advance a field. does this conference address an important problem? if the aims of the application are achieved, how will scientific knowledge or clinical practice be advanced? what will be the effect of these endeavors on the concepts, methods, technologies, treatments, services, or preventative interventions that drive this field?is(are) the pd(s)/pi(s) well suited for organizing and fulfilling the goals of this conference, including efforts to enhance diversity? are the qualifications and past performance of the pd(s)/pi(s) appropriate, and are they well suited for their described roles in the conference? are the key personnel and selected speakers appropriate and well suited for their described roles in the conference? does the conference employ novel approaches or methods to fulfill its purpose? does the conference draw together appropriate experts who may otherwise not have an opportunity to meet?are the format and agenda for the conference appropriate for achieving the specified goals? is the conference timely for the subject matter? for applications designating multiple pds/pis, is the leadership plan approach, including the designated roles and responsibilities, governance and organizational structure consistent with and justified by the topics of the conference and the expertise of each of the pds/pis?if the project involves human subjects and/or nih-defined clinical research, are the plans to address 1) the protection of human subjects from research risks, and 2) inclusion (or exclusion) of individuals on the basis of sex/gender, race, and ethnicity, as well as the inclusion or exclusion of individuals of all ages (including children and older adults), justified in terms of the scientific goals and research strategy proposed? is the conference site appropriate? does the applicant organization have the ability to contribute to the probability of success? do the proposed meetings, exhibits, interactions, etc., take advantage of unique features of the environment or employ useful collaborative arrangements? is institutional support evident?as applicable for the project proposed, reviewers will evaluate the following additional items while determining scientific and technical merit, and in providing an overall impact score, but will not give separate scores for these items.diversity planhow well does the diversity plan demonstrate efforts to enhance diversity by increasing the participation of individuals from diverse backgrounds, including those from underrepresented groups, in the planning and implementation, and participation in the proposed conference? underrepresented groups include individuals from nationally underrepresented racial and ethnic groups, individuals with disabilities, individuals from disadvantaged backgrounds, and women. for more information, see not-od-20-031 notice of nih’s interest in diversity, not-od-15-152, civil rights protections in nih-supported research, programs, conferences and other activities, and not-od-21-053, updated guidelines on enhancing diversity and creating safe environments in conferences supported by nih grants and cooperative agreements.protections for human subjectsgenerally not applicable. reviewers should bring any concerns to the attention of the scientific review officer.inclusion of women, minorities, and individuals across the lifespangenerally not applicable. reviewers should bring any concerns to the attention of the scientific review officer.vertebrate animalsgenerally not applicable. reviewers should bring any concerns to the attention of the scientific review officer.biohazardsgenerally not applicable. reviewers should bring any concerns to the attention of the scientific review officer.resubmissionsfor resubmissions, the committee will evaluate the application as now presented, taking into consideration the responses to comments from the previous scientific review group and changes made to the project.renewalsfor renewals, the committee will consider the progress made in the last funding period.revisionsfor revisions, the committee will consider the appropriateness of the proposed expansion of the scope of the project. if the revision application relates to a specific line of investigation presented in the original application that was not recommended for approval by the committee, then the committee will consider whether the responses to comments from the previous scientific review group are adequate and whether substantial changes are clearly evident.note: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023, the data sharing plan and genomic data sharing plan (gds) as part of the resource sharing plan will not be evaluated at time of review, and a data management and sharing plan is not applicable for this foa.as applicable for the project proposed, reviewers will consider each of the following items, but will not give scores for these items, and should not consider them in providing an overall impact score.provision of family care facilitiesare the plans to inform attendees about family care resources adequate?applications from foreign organizationsnot applicableselect agent researchgenerally not applicable. reviewers should bring any concerns to the attention of the scientific review officer.resource sharing plansnot applicableauthentication of key biological and/or chemical resources:not applicablebudget and period of supportreviewers will consider whether the budget and the requested period of support are fully justified and reasonable in relation to the proposed conference. .applications will be evaluated for scientific and technical merit by (an) appropriate scientific review group(s) , in accordance with nih peer review policy and procedures, using the stated review criteria. assignment to a scientific review group will be shown in the era commons.as part of the scientific peer review, all applications will receive a written critique.applications may undergo a selection process in which only those applications deemed to have the highest scientific and technical merit (generally the top half of applications under review) will be discussed and assigned an overall impact score.applications will be assigned on the basis of established phs referral guidelines to the appropriate nih institute or center. applications will compete for available funds with all other recommended applications . following initial peer review, recommended applications will receive a second level of review by the appropriate national advisory council or board. the following will be considered in making funding decisions:scientific and technical merit of the proposed project as determined by scientific peer review.availability of funds.relevance of the proposed project to program priorities.information regarding the disposition of applications is available in the nih grants policy statement.if the application is under consideration for funding, nih will request "just-in-time" information from the applicant as described in the nih grants policy statement.a formal notification in the form of a notice of award (noa) will be provided to the applicant organization for successful applications. the noa signed by the grants management officer is the authorizing document and will be sent via email to the recipient's business official.awardees must comply with any funding restrictions described in section iv.5. funding restrictions. selection of an application for award is not an authorization to begin performance. any costs incurred before receipt of the noa are at the recipient's risk. these costs may be reimbursed only to the extent considered allowable pre-award costs.any application awarded in response to this foa will be subject to terms and conditions found on the award conditions and information for nih grants website. this includes any recent legislation and policy applicable to awards that is highlighted on this website.institutional review board or independent ethics committee approval: recipient institutions must ensure that protocols are reviewed by their irb or iec. to help ensure the safety of participants enrolled in nih-funded studies, the awardee must provide nih copies of documents related to all major changes in the status of ongoing protocols.all nih grant and cooperative agreement awards include the nih grants policy statement as part of the noa. for these terms of award, see the nih grants policy statement part ii: terms and conditions of nih grant awards, subpart a: general and part ii: terms and conditions of nih grant awards, subpart b: terms and conditions for specific types of grants, recipients, and activities. more information is provided at award conditions and information for nih grants.recipients of federal financial assistance (ffa) from hhs must administer their programs in compliance with federal civil rights laws that prohibit discrimination on the basis of race, color, national origin, disability, age and, in some circumstances, religion, conscience, and sex. this includes ensuring programs are accessible to persons with limited english proficiency. the hhs office for civil rights provides guidance on complying with civil rights laws enforced by hhs. please see https://www.hhs.gov/civil-rights/for-providers/provider-obligations/index.html and http://www.hhs.gov/ocr/civilrights/understanding/section1557/index.html.hhs recognizes that research projects are often limited in scope for many reasons that are nondiscriminatory, such as the principal investigator’s scientific interest, funding limitations, recruitment requirements, and other considerations. thus, criteria in research protocols that target or exclude certain populations are warranted where nondiscriminatory justifications establish that such criteria are appropriate with respect to the health or safety of the subjects, the scientific study design, or the purpose of the research. for additional guidance regarding how the provisions apply to nih grant programs, please contact the scientific/research contact that is identified in section vii under agency contacts of this foa.please contact the hhs office for civil rights for more information about obligations and prohibitions under federal civil rights laws at https://www.hhs.gov/ocr/about-us/contact-us/index.html or call 1-800-368-1019 or tdd 1-800-537-7697.in accordance with the statutory provisions contained in section 872 of the duncan hunter national defense authorization act of fiscal year 2009 (public law 110-417), nih awards will be subject to the federal awardee performance and integrity information system (fapiis) requirements. fapiis requires federal award making officials to review and consider information about an applicant in the designated integrity and performance system (currently fapiis) prior to making an award. an applicant, at its option, may review information in the designated integrity and performance systems accessible through fapiis and comment on any information about itself that a federal agency previously entered and is currently in fapiis. the federal awarding agency will consider any comments by the applicant, in addition to other information in fapiis, in making a judgement about the applicant’s integrity, business ethics, and record of performance under federal awards when completing the review of risk posed by applicants as described in 45 cfr part 75.205 “federal awarding agency review of risk posed by applicants.” this provision will apply to all nih grants and cooperative agreements except fellowships.not applicablea final rppr, invention statement, and the expenditure data portion of the federal financial report are required for closeout of an award, as described in the nih grants policy statement.the federal funding accountability and transparency act of 2006 (transparency act), includes a requirement for awardees of federal grants to report information about first-tier subawards and executive compensation under federal assistance awards issued in fy2011 or later. all awardees of applicable nih grants and cooperative agreements are required to report to the federal subaward reporting system (fsrs) available at www.fsrs.gov on all subawards over $25,000. see the nih grants policy statement for additional information on this reporting requirement.in accordance with the regulatory requirements provided at 45 cfr 75.113 and appendix xii to 45 cfr part 75, recipients that have currently active federal grants, cooperative agreements, and procurement contracts from all federal awarding agencies with a cumulative total value greater than $10,000,000 for any period of time during the period of performance of a federal award, must report and maintain the currency of information reported in the system for award management (sam) about civil, criminal, and administrative proceedings in connection with the award or performance of a federal award that reached final disposition within the most recent five-year period. the recipient must also make semiannual disclosures regarding such proceedings. proceedings information will be made publicly available in the designated integrity and performance system (currently fapiis). this is a statutory requirement under section 872 of public law 110-417, as amended (41 u.s.c. 2313). as required by section 3010 of public law 111-212, all information posted in the designated integrity and performance system on or after april 15, 2011, except past performance reviews required for federal procurement contracts, will be publicly available. full reporting requirements and procedures are found in appendix xii to 45 cfr part 75 – award term and conditions for recipient integrity and performance matters.we encourage inquiries concerning this funding opportunity and welcome the opportunity to answer questions from potential applicants.era service desk (questions regarding assist, era commons, application errors and warnings, documenting system problems that threaten submission by the due date, and post-submission issues)finding help online: http://grants.nih.gov/support/ (preferred method of contact) telephone: 301-402-7469 or 866-504-9552 (toll free)general grants information (questions regarding application instructions, application processes, and nih grant resources) email: grantsinfo@nih.gov (preferred method of contact) telephone: 301-637-3015grants.gov customer support (questions regarding grants.gov registration and workspace) contact center telephone: 800-518-4726 email: support@grants.govscientific/research contact information is listed in the table at r13 contacts and special interest website.examine your era commons account for review assignment and contact information (information appears two weeks after the submission due date).financial/grants management contact information is listed in the table at r13 contacts and special interest website.recently issued trans-nih policy notices may affect your application submission. a full list of policy notices published by nih is provided in the nih guide for grants and contracts. all awards are subject to the terms and conditions, cost principles, and other considerations described in the nih grants policy statement.awards are made under the authorization of sections 301 and 405 of the public health service act as amended (42 usc 241 and 284) and under federal regulations 42 cfr part 52 and 45 cfr part 75. weekly toc for this announcement nih funding opportunities and noticesnote: for help accessing pdf, rtf, ms word, excel, powerpoint, audio or video files, see help downloading files.