Resources Access for Preclinical Integrated Drug Development (RAPIDD) Program (X01 Clinical Trial Not Allowed)
https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/pa-files/PAR-22-185.html
national institutes of health (nih)national institute of allergy and infectious diseases (niaid)x01 resource access awardapril 25, 2023 - notice of revised award administration information for x01 notices of funding opportunities. see notice not-od-23-120not-od-23-012 reminder: forms-h grant application forms and instructions must be used for due dates on or after january 25, 2023 - new grant application instructions now availablenot-od-22-190 - adjustments to nih and ahrq grant application due dates between september 22 and september 30, 2022see section iii. 3. additional information on eligibility.the purpose of this foa is to provide investigators working on the development of novel therapeutic products for hiv and hiv-associated co-infections (hepatitis b virus, hepatitis c virus, and mycobacterium tuberculosis) with a mechanism to request niaid daids preclinical services to fill gaps in their product development efforts and facilitate the advancement of promising therapeutics from bench to clinics.30 days prior to the application due dateall applications are due by 5:00 pm local time of applicant organization.applicants are encouraged to apply early to allow adequate time to make any corrections to errors found in the application during the submission process by the due date.not applicableit is critical that applicants follow the instructions in the research (r) instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, except where instructed to do otherwise (in this foa or in a notice from nih guide for grants and contracts).conformance to all requirements (both in the application guide and the foa) is required and strictly enforced. applicants must read and follow all application instructions in the application guide as well as any program-specific instructions noted in section iv. when the program-specific instructions deviate from those in the application guide, follow the program-specific instructions.applications that do not comply with these instructions may be delayed or not accepted for review.there are several options available to submit your application through grants.gov to nih and department of health and human services partners. you must use one of these submission options to access the application forms for this opportunity.backgroundthe niaid division of aids (daids) maintains resources for preclinical gap-filling support to develop promising hiv therapeutics and to enable filing an investigational new drug (ind) application with the food and drug administration. the resources access for preclinical integrated drug development (rapidd) program provides a standard way for investigators to request gap-filling services and is intended to reduce barriers in the drug development processthis announcement supports the national institute of allergy and infectious diseases (niaid) mission to conduct and support basic and applied research to treat infectious diseases with a focus on:(1) development of next-generation hiv therapies (drugs with improved safety and ease of use, e.g., sustained release antiretrovirals; novel hiv targets & inhibitors; novel immune-based therapies) and(2) addressing hiv-associated comorbidities, coinfections, and complications.purpose and scopethe purpose of the rapidd program is to provide investigators working in the area of drug development for treatment of hiv and hiv-associated co-infections, hepatitis b virus (hbv), hepatitis c virus (hcv), and tuberculosis (tb) access to daids preclinical services for specific tasks. applicants are not required to have current nih funding to apply. it is expected that resources other than those supported by the rapidd program will be sought or in place to complete the drug development program. requested services may not overlap with efforts already funded through the department of health and human services.projects in both the early and late stages of preclinical development are suitable for this announcement. experimental therapeutics may include small organic molecules, polymers, or biologics (e.g., peptides, oligonucleotides, antibodies), cellular and genetic drug products (e.g., car-t cells).available services include, but are not limited to:a) in vitro testing and screening of hiv compoundsb) evaluations in small animal models for hiv, hbv, hcv and mtbsupported studies include pharmacokinetic (pk), safety, and efficacy studies to characterize products, inform dose selection, optimize formulations, and/or obtain other information necessary to advance or support product testing in subsequent large animal or human studies (supported under different mechanisms). xenograft models will utilize postnatal human cells and tissue. studies of mycobaterium are limited to mycobacterium tuberculosis and do not include other mycobacterium species.c) formulation development and manufacture of clinical dosage forms for hiv and hiv-associatedco-infections hbv, hcv, and tbd) preclinical pharmacology and toxicology for hiv and hiv-associated coinfections hbv, hcv, and tbservices requested are expected to be narrowly focused to fill gaps in areas of need identified by the applicant. interested parties are strongly encouraged to reach out to the scientific/research contact to discuss potential service requests prior to application submission. typically, services for a, c, and d will not exceed 12 months. requests for b, "evaluations in small animal models for hiv, hepatitis b, hepatitis c and tb" may extend to 24 months. applicants may request services for multiple areas (e.g., any service within a, b, c, or d above); however, each service requires a separate application submission with a strong justification.intellectual propertyit is expected that the originating investigator, institution or a collaborating partner will have acquired or be in the process of acquiring appropriate intellectual property protection prior to application to the rapidd program. resource services will be provided through existing daids preclinical contracts. while it is unlikely the nih staff will make an inventive contribution to any intellectual property developed under the rapidd program, in accordance with 37 cfr part 501, the government has rights to any invention made by federal employees and its employees have a duty to report all inventions. if the nih does file a patent application claiming one or more inventions developed under the rapidd program, the originating investigator institution will be given the opportunity to negotiate for an exclusive license under procedures set forth in 37 cfr part 404.nih contractors, under the bayh-dole act, may elect to retain rights for a contribution they make that rises to the level of invention. however, some contractors, as a term of their funding agreements, have agreed to offer a first option to the originating investigator institution for license negotiation. if the applicant is selected for resource support, a material evaluation agreement or other agreement may be required prior to initiation of work, which will define how intellectual property is managed under the specific contract(s) under which such support would be provided. questions or concerns about intellectual property should be discussed with niaid staff prior to application.see section viii. other information for award authorities and regulations.other: a mechanism that is not a grant or cooperative agreement. examples include access to research resources or pre-applications.the oer glossary and the sf424 (r&r) application guide provide details on these application types. only those application types listed here are allowed for this foa.not allowed: only accepting applications that do not propose clinical trials.need help determining whether you are doing a clinical trial?not applicable. there are no funds associated with a x01 resource access award.not applicable. there are no funds awarded via the x01 resource access award.the scope of the proposed project should determine the project period. the maximum project period for topics a, c, and d is one (1) year, while the maximum project period for topic b is two (2) years.nih grants policies as described in the nih grants policy statement will apply to the applications submitted and awards made from this foa.1. eligible applicantshigher education institutionsthe following types of higher education institutions are always encouraged to apply for nih support as public or private institutions of higher education:nonprofits other than institutions of higher educationfor-profit organizationslocal governmentsfederal governmentothernon-domestic (non-u.s.) entities (foreign institutions) are eligible to apply.non-domestic (non-u.s.) components of u.s. organizations are eligible to apply.foreign components, as defined in the nih grants policy statement, are allowed.applicant organizationsapplicant organizations must complete and maintain the following registrations as described in the sf 424 (r&r) application guide to be eligible to apply for or receive an award. all registrations must be completed prior to the application being submitted. registration can take 6 weeks or more, so applicants should begin the registration process as soon as possible. the nih policy on late submission of grant applications states that failure to complete registrations in advance of a due date is not a valid reason for a late submission.program directors/principal investigators (pd(s)/pi(s))all pd(s)/pi(s) must have an era commons account. pd(s)/pi(s) should work with their organizational officials to either create a new account or to affiliate their existing account with the applicant organization in era commons. if the pd/pi is also the organizational signing official, they must have two distinct era commons accounts, one for each role. obtaining an era commons account can take up to 2 weeks.any individual(s) with the skills, knowledge, and resources necessary to carry out the proposed research as the program director(s)/principal investigator(s) (pd(s)/pi(s)) is invited to work with his/her organization to develop an application for support. individuals from underrepresented racial and ethnic groups as well as individuals with disabilities are always encouraged to apply for nih support.for institutions/organizations proposing multiple pds/pis, visit the multiple program director/principal investigator policy and submission details in the senior/key person profile (expanded) component of the sf424 (r&r) application guide.2. cost sharingthis foa does not require cost sharing as defined in the nih grants policy statement.3. additional information on eligibilitynumber of applicationsa separate application is required for each service area (a-d). applicants may submit more than one application per each service area provided they are distinct.the nih will not accept duplicate or highly overlapping applications under review at the same time, per 2.3.7.4 submission of resubmission application. this means that the nih will not accept:1. requesting an application packagethe application forms package specific to this opportunity must be accessed through assist, grants.gov workspace or an institutional system-to-system solution. links to apply using assist or grants.gov workspace are available in part 1 of this foa. see your administrative office for instructions if you plan to use an institutional system-to-system solution.2. content and form of application submissionletter of intentalthough a letter of intent is not required, is not binding, and does not enter into the review of a subsequent application, the information that it contains allows ic staff to estimate the potential review workload and plan the review.by the date listed in part 1. overview information, prospective applicants are asked to submit a letter of intent that includes the following information:the letter of intent should be sent to:niaidrapidd-x01@nih.govall page limitations described in the sf424 application guide and the table of page limits must be followed, with the following additional instructions:the research strategy is limited to 6 pages.note: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023 a data management and sharing plan is not applicable for this foa.the following section supplements the instructions found in the sf424 (r&r) application guide and should be used for preparing an application to this foa.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed, with the following additional instructions:please use these additional instructions since this is not an application for funding:total federal funds requested: enter $0total federal and non-federal funds: enter $0estimated program income: enter $0.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.r&r budgetall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed, with the following additional instructions:not applicable. applicants will not submit a budget for this foa.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed, with the following additional instructions:specific aim: provide a single specific aim that refers directly to the services requested. the specific aim must be able to be achievable within the proposed timeline.research strategy: the research strategy should provide a clear outline of the requested services, including:background and significance: applicants should clearly and concisely describe the potential impact of the proposed study and address why the project represents a particularly innovative or promising approach and why the requested services are needed to overcome translational barriers.preliminary data: provide data summaries related to the request and the goals of the proposed studies.describe intellectual property rights relevant to the request.provide a clear outline of the drug development program and define how completion of the requested study(ies) will support the overall goal. propose a work plan with defined objectives and metrics for success (e.g., in vitro screening, efficacy study, pharmacology, toxicology, etc.). applications do not need to include finalized study protocols at the time of submission, but the plans should be detailed enough to support the request. if selected for support, study plans will be finalized in consultation with daids contractors, daids staff, and the x01 applicant.describe deliverables (e.g., protocols, reports, teleconference minutes, formulated drug, etc.) to be requested during or at the end of the studies.describe the availability of material provided by the applicant in sufficient quantity and purity for the requested services (e.g., availability of sufficient drug product for a formulation or animal study).for drug formulation and manufacture services, prior formulation development and manufacture activities should be described.for dmpk/adme studies, provide data demonstrating effectiveness in vitro and in vivo for the proposed test compound(s), data evaluating bioavailability of the proposed test compound(s), and data on microsome-based stability for the proposed test compound(s) if available. for animal dosing studies, provide a rationale for species and doses chosen.for studies focused on a defined molecular target (e.g., an inhibitor of a specific molecular target), the potential target should be identified and/or mechanism of action defined prior to submission of the x01 application.for projects requesting either production of clinical lot or ind-directed glp toxicology and safety pharmacology studies, briefly summarize the plans for clinical testing and methods to assess clinical efficacy. include potential collaborators and institutional arrangements for oversight and irb review.provide a timeline with milestones and justification that clearly describe a path towards advancement of the project.clearly identify alternative strategies if applicable.resource sharing plan: individuals are required to comply with the instructions for the resource sharing plans as provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.the following modifications also apply:when involving human subjects research, clinical research, and/or nih-defined clinical trials (and when applicable, clinical trials research experience) follow all instructions for the phs human subjects and clinical trials information form in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, with the following additional instructions:if you answered “yes” to the question “are human subjects involved?” on the r&r other project information form, you must include at least one human subjects study record using the study record: phs human subjects and clinical trials information form or delayed onset study record.study record: phs human subjects and clinical trials informationall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.delayed onset studynote: delayed onset does not apply to a study that can be described but will not start immediately (i.e., delayed start).all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.foreign institutionsforeign (non-u.s.) institutions must follow policies described in the nih grants policy statement, and procedures for foreign institutions described throughout the sf424 (r&r) application guide.3. unique entity identifier and system for award management (sam)see part 1. section iii.1 for information regarding the requirement for obtaining a unique entity identifier and for completing and maintaining active registrations in system for award management (sam), nato commercial and government entity (ncage) code (if applicable), era commons, and grants.govpart i. overview information contains information about key dates and times. applicants are encouraged to submit applications before the due date to ensure they have time to make any application corrections that might be necessary for successful submission. when a submission date falls on a weekend or federal holiday, the application deadline is automatically extended to the next business day.organizations must submit applications to grants.gov (the online portal to find and apply for grants across all federal agencies). applicants must then complete the submission process by tracking the status of the application in the era commons, nih’s electronic system for grants administration. nih and grants.gov systems check the application against many of the application instructions upon submission. errors must be corrected and a changed/corrected application must be submitted to grants.gov on or before the application due date and time. if a changed/corrected application is submitted after the deadline, the application will be considered late. applications that miss the due date and time are subjected to the nih policy on late application submission.applicants are responsible for viewing their application before the due date in the era commons to ensure accurate and successful submission.information on the submission process and a definition of on-time submission are provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.5. intergovernmental review (e.o. 12372)this initiative is not subject to intergovernmental review.all nih awards are subject to the terms and conditions, cost principles, and other considerations described in the nih grants policy statement.pre-award costs are allowable only as described in the nih grants policy statement.not applicable. no funds are associated with this foa.applications must be submitted electronically following the instructions described in the sf424 (r&r) application guide. paper applications will not be accepted.applicants must complete all required registrations before the application due date. section iii. eligibility information contains information about registration.for assistance with your electronic application or for more information on the electronic submission process, visit how to apply – application guide. if you encounter a system issue beyond your control that threatens your ability to complete the submission process on-time, you must follow the dealing with system issues guidance. for assistance with application submission, contact the application submission contacts in section vii.important reminders:all pd(s)/pi(s) must include their era commons id in the credential fieldof the senior/key person profile form. failure to register in the commons and to include a valid pd/pi commons id in the credential field will prevent the successful submission of an electronic application to nih. see section iii of this foa for information on registration requirements.the applicant organization must ensure that the unique entity identifier (uei) provided on the application is the same number used in the organization’s profile in the era commons and for the system for award management. additional information may be found in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.see more tips for avoiding common errors.upon receipt, applications will be evaluated for completeness and compliance with application instructions by the center for scientific review, nih. applications that are incomplete or non-compliant will not be reviewed.applicants are required to follow the instructions for post-submission materials, as described in the policy. any instructions provided here are in addition to the instructions in the policy.1. criteriaonly the review criteria described below will be considered in the review process. applications submitted to the nih in support of the nih mission are evaluated for scientific and technical merit through the nih administrative review system..for this particular announcement, note the following:the x01 resource access program invites eligible institutions to seek access to nih research resources, which are specified in each x01 foa. this includes programs where institutions will request access to submit to the resource (e.g., high throughput screening assays) as well as programs where access to a specific nih research resource is needed to conduct certain research. important factors in the administrative review of x01 applications are the need for, and potential benefit of, gaining access to the resource, specifications for any assays proposed, timelines for completion and plans for follow-on studies.overall impactreviewers will provide an overall impact score to reflect their assessment of the likelihood for the project to exert a sustained, powerful influence on the research field(s) involved, in consideration of the following review criteria and additional review criteria (as applicable for the project proposed).additional review criteriaas applicable for the project proposed, reviewers will evaluate the following additional items while determining scientific and technical merit, and in providing an overall impact score, but will not give separate scores for these items.for this announcement, the following review criteria will be used:protections for human subjectsfor research that involves human subjects but does not involve one of the categories of research that are exempt under 45 cfr part 46, the committee will evaluate the justification for involvement of human subjects and the proposed protections from research risk relating to their participation according to the following five review criteria: 1) risk to subjects, 2) adequacy of protection against risks, 3) potential benefits to the subjects and others, 4) importance of the knowledge to be gained, and 5) data and safety monitoring for clinical trials.for research that involves human subjects and meets the criteria for one or more of the categories of research that are exempt under 45 cfr part 46, the committee will evaluate: 1) the justification for the exemption, 2) human subjects involvement and characteristics, and 3) sources of materials. for additional information on review of the human subjects section, please refer to the guidelines for the review of human subjects.inclusion of women, minorities, and individuals across the lifespanwhen the proposed project involves human subjects and/or nih-defined clinical research, the committee will evaluate the proposed plans for the inclusion (or exclusion) of individuals on the basis of sex/gender, race, and ethnicity, as well as the inclusion (or exclusion) of individuals of all ages (including children and older adults) to determine if it is justified in terms of the scientific goals and research strategy proposed. for additional information on review of the inclusion section, please refer to the guidelines for the review of inclusion in clinical research.vertebrate animalsthe committee will evaluate the involvement of live vertebrate animals as part of the scientific assessment according to the following criteria: (1) description of proposed procedures involving animals, including species, strains, ages, sex, and total number to be used; (2) justifications for the use of animals versus alternative models and for the appropriateness of the species proposed; (3) interventions to minimize discomfort, distress, pain and injury; and (4) justification for euthanasia method if not consistent with the avma guidelines for the euthanasia of animals. reviewers will assess the use of chimpanzees as they would any other application proposing the use of vertebrate animals. for additional information on review of the vertebrate animals section, please refer to the worksheet for review of the vertebrate animals section.biohazardsreviewers will assess whether materials or procedures proposed are potentially hazardous to research personnel and/or the environment, and if needed, determine whether adequate protection is proposed.resubmissionsnot applicablerenewalsnot applicablerevisionsnot applicablenote: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023, the data sharing plan and genomic data sharing plan (gds) as part of the resource sharing plan will not be evaluated at time of review, and a data management and sharing plan is not applicable for this foa.as applicable for the project proposed, reviewers will consider each of the following items, but will not give scores for these items, and should not consider them in providing an overall impact score.applications from foreign organizationsreviewers will assess whether the project presents special opportunities for furthering research programs through the use of unusual talent, resources, populations, or environmental conditions that exist in other countries and either are not readily available in the united states or augment existing u.s. resources.select agent researchreviewers will assess the information provided in this section of the application, including 1) the select agent(s) to be used in the proposed research, 2) the registration status of all entities where select agent(s) will be used, 3) the procedures that will be used to monitor possession use and transfer of select agent(s), and 4) plans for appropriate biosafety, biocontainment, and security of the select agent(s).resource sharing plansreviewers will comment on whether the following resource sharing plans, or the rationale for not sharing the following types of resources, are reasonable: (1) data sharing plan; (2) sharing model organisms; and (3) genomic data sharing plan (gds).authentication of key biological and/or chemical resources:for projects involving key biological and/or chemical resources, reviewers will comment on the brief plans proposed for identifying and ensuring the validity of those resources.budget and period of supportreviewers will consider whether the budget and the requested period of support are fully justified and reasonable in relation to the proposed research.2. review and selection processapplications submitted to this funding opportunity announcement will be administratively reviewed using the criteria shown above.3. anticipated announcement and award datesafter the administrative review of the application is completed, the pd/pi will be able to access his or her summary statement (written critique) via the era commons. refer to part 1 for dates for administrative review, advisory council, and earliest start date.1. award noticesif the application is under consideration for funding, nih will request "just-in-time" information from the applicant as described in the nih grants policy statement.a formal notification in the form of a notice of award (noa) will be provided to the applicant organization for successful applications. the noa signed by the grants management officer is the authorizing document and will be sent via email to the recipient's business official.recipients must comply with any funding restrictions described in section iv.5. funding restrictions. selection of an application for award is not an authorization to begin performance. any costs incurred before receipt of the noa are at the recipient's risk. these costs may be reimbursed only to the extent considered allowable pre-award costs.any application awarded in response to this foa will be subject to terms and conditions found on the award conditions and information for nih grants website. this includes any recent legislation and policy applicable to awards that is highlighted on this website.institutional review board or independent ethics committee approval: recipient institutions must ensure that protocols are reviewed by their irb or iec. to help ensure the safety of participants enrolled in nih-funded studies, the recipient must provide nih copies of documents related to all major changes in the status of ongoing protocols.2. administrative and national policy requirementsall nih grant and cooperative agreement awards include the nih grants policy statement as part of the noa. for these terms of award, see the nih grants policy statement part ii: terms and conditions of nih grant awards, subpart a: general and part ii: terms and conditions of nih grant awards, subpart b: terms and conditions for specific types of grants, recipients, and activities, including of note, but not limited to:if a recipient is successful and receives a notice of award, in accepting the award, the recipient agrees that any activities under the award are subject to all provisions currently in effect or implemented during the period of the award, other department regulations and policies in effect at the time of the award, and applicable statutory provisions.should the applicant organization successfully compete for an award, recipients of federal financial assistance (ffa) from hhs must administer their programs in compliance with federal civil rights laws that prohibit discrimination on the basis of race, color, national origin, disability, age and, in some circumstances, religion, conscience, and sex (including gender identify, sexual orientation, and pregnancy). this includes ensuring programs are accessible to persons with limited english proficiency and persons with disabilities. the hhs office for civil rights provides guidance on complying with civil rights laws enforced by hhs. please see https://www.hhs.gov/civil-rights/for-providers/provider-obligations/index.html and https://www.hhs.gov/civil-rights/for-individuals/nondiscrimination/index.htmlhhs recognizes that research projects are often limited in scope for many reasons that are nondiscriminatory, such as the principal investigator’s scientific interest, funding limitations, recruitment requirements, and other considerations. thus, criteria in research protocols that target or exclude certain populations are warranted where nondiscriminatory justifications establish that such criteria are appropriate with respect to the health or safety of the subjects, the scientific study design, or the purpose of the research. for additional guidance regarding how the provisions apply to nih grant programs, please contact the scientific/research contact that is identified in section vii under agency contacts of this foa.please contact the hhs office for civil rights for more information about obligations and prohibitions under federal civil rights laws at https://www.hhs.gov/ocr/about-us/contact-us/index.html or call 1-800-368-1019 or tdd 1-800-537-7697.in accordance with the statutory provisions contained in section 872 of the duncan hunter national defense authorization act of fiscal year 2009 (public law 110-417), nih awards will be subject to the federal awardee performance and integrity information system (fapiis) requirements. fapiis requires federal award making officials to review and consider information about an applicant in the designated integrity and performance system (currently fapiis) prior to making an award. an applicant, at its option, may review information in the designated integrity and performance systems accessible through fapiis and comment on any information about itself that a federal agency previously entered and is currently in fapiis. the federal awarding agency will consider any comments by the applicant, in addition to other information in fapiis, in making a judgement about the applicant’s integrity, business ethics, and record of performance under federal awards when completing the review of risk posed by applicants as described in 45 cfr part 75.205 and 2 cfr part 200.206 “federal awarding agency review of risk posed by applicants.” this provision will apply to all nih grants and cooperative agreements except fellowships.not applicable3. reportingwhen multiple years are involved, recipients will be required to submit the research performance progress report (rppr) annually and financial statements as required in the nih grants policy statement.the federal funding accountability and transparency act of 2006 (transparency act), includes a requirement for recipients of federal grants to report information about first-tier subawards and executive compensation under federal assistance awards issued in fy2011 or later. all recipients of applicable nih grants and cooperative agreements are required to report to the federal subaward reporting system (fsrs) available at www.fsrs.gov on all subawards over $25,000. see the nih grants policy statement for additional information on this reporting requirement.in accordance with the regulatory requirements provided at 45 cfr 75.113 and appendix xii to 45 cfr part 75, recipients that have currently active federal grants, cooperative agreements, and procurement contracts from all federal awarding agencies with a cumulative total value greater than $10,000,000 for any period of time during the period of performance of a federal award, must report and maintain the currency of information reported in the system for award management (sam) about civil, criminal, and administrative proceedings in connection with the award or performance of a federal award that reached final disposition within the most recent five-year period. the recipient must also make semiannual disclosures regarding such proceedings. proceedings information will be made publicly available in the designated integrity and performance system (currently fapiis). this is a statutory requirement under section 872 of public law 110-417, as amended (41 u.s.c. 2313). as required by section 3010 of public law 111-212, all information posted in the designated integrity and performance system on or after april 15, 2011, except past performance reviews required for federal procurement contracts, will be publicly available. full reporting requirements and procedures are found in appendix xii to 45 cfr part 75 – award term and conditions for recipient integrity and performance matters.we encourage inquiries concerning this funding opportunity and welcome the opportunity to answer questions from potential applicants.era service desk (questions regarding assist, era commons, application errors and warnings, documenting system problems that threaten submission by the due date, and post-submission issues)finding help online: http://grants.nih.gov/support/ (preferred method of contact) telephone: 301-402-7469 or 866-504-9552 (toll free)general grants information (questions regarding application instructions, application processes, and nih grant resources) email: grantsinfo@nih.gov (preferred method of contact) telephone: 301-637-3015grants.gov customer support (questions regarding grants.gov registration and workspace) contact center telephone: 800-518-4726 email: support@grants.govin vitro testing and screening of hiv compounds betty poon, ph.d. national institute of allergy and infectious diseases (niaid) telephone: 240-669-5024 email: poonb@niaid.nih.govevaluations in small animal models for hiv, hbv, hcv and mtb brigitte e. sanders, d.v.m., ph.d. national institute of allergy and infectious diseases (niaid) telephone: 240-627-3209 email: sandersbe@niaid.nih.govformulation development and manufacture of clinical dosage forms marina n. protopopova, ph.d. national institute of allergy and infectious diseases (niaid) telephone: 301-761-7653 email: marina.protopopova@nih.govpreclinical pharmacology and toxicology marina n. protopopova, ph.d. national institute of allergy and infectious diseases (niaid) telephone: 301-761-7653 email: marina.protopopova@nih.govapplications submitted to this foa will not undergo peer review. questions should be directed to the scientific/research contacts.not applicablerecently issued trans-nih policy notices may affect your application submission. a full list of policy notices published by nih is provided in the nih guide for grants and contracts. all awards are subject to the terms and conditions, cost principles, and other considerations described in the nih grants policy statement.awards are made under the authorization of sections 301 and 405 of the public health service act as amended (42 usc 241 and 284) and under federal regulations 42 cfr part 52 and 45 cfr part 75.weekly toc for this announcement nih funding opportunities and noticesnote: for help accessing pdf, rtf, ms word, excel, powerpoint, audio or video files, see help downloading files.