NINDS Renewal Awards of SBIR Phase II Grants (Phase IIB) for Pre-Clinical Research (R44 Clinical Trial Not Allowed)
https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/pa-files/PAR-21-114.html
national institutes of health (nih)national institute of neurological disorders and stroke (ninds)r44 small business innovation research (sbir) grant - phase ii onlyreissue of par-17-480 - ninds renewal awards of sbir phase ii grants (phase iib) for pre-clinical research (r44)par-18-665 - r44 small business innovation research (sbir) grant - phase ii onlysee section iii. 3. additional information on eligibility.93.853some projects initiated with sbir or sttr funding require considerable financing beyond the sbir/sttr phase ii award to achieve commercialization. the development of medical biotechnology products is often impeded by a significant funding gap (known as the “valley of death”) between the end of the sbir/sttr phase ii award and the commercialization stage. the goal of this foa is to assist applicants in pursuing the next appropriate milestone(s) necessary to advance a product/technology that requires federal regulatory approval or to bring a complex research tool to market. this opportunity aims to facilitate the transition of previously funded sbir and sttr phase ii projects to the commercialization stage by promoting partnerships between ninds sbir or sttr awardees and third-party investors and/or strategic partners in the phase iib competing renewal. applicants are strongly encouraged to secure independent third-party funding throughout the phase iib project period.30 days prior to the application due datestandard dates applythe first standard due date for this foa is april 5, 2021all applications are due by 5:00 pm local time of applicant organization. all types of non-aids applications allowed for this funding opportunity announcement are due on the listed date(s).applicants are encouraged to apply early to allow adequate time to make any corrections to errors found in the application during the submission process by the due date.not applicable*** sbir/sttr applications are no longer accepted on standard aids due dates.standard dates applystandard dates applystandard dates applynot applicableit is critical that applicants follow the sbir/sttr (b) instructions in the sf424 (r&r) sbir/sttr application guide except where instructed to do otherwise (in this foa or in a notice from the nih guide for grants and contracts). conformance to all requirements (both in the application guide and the foa) is required and strictly enforced. applicants must read and follow all application instructions in the application guide as well as any program-specific instructions noted in section iv. when the program-specific instructions deviate from those in the application guide, follow the program-specific instructions. applications that do not comply with these instructions may be delayed or not accepted for review.there are several options available to submit your application through grants.gov to nih and department of health and human services partners. you must use one of these submission options to access the application forms for this opportunity.purposeninds is committed to advancing diagnostics and treatments for people burdened by neurological diseases, and the ninds small business innovation research (sbir) and small business technology transfer (sttr) programs have provided the small business community with critical seed funding to support the development of a wide variety of technologies and therapeutics for the diagnosis and treatment of neurological diseases. the sbir/sttr programs are structured in three phases. the main objective in sbir/sttr phase i is to establish the technical merit and feasibility of the proposed research and development (r&d) efforts, whereas in sbir/sttr phase ii it is to continue the r&d efforts to advance the technology toward ultimate commercialization. at the conclusion of an sbir/sttr phase ii, it is expected that the small business concern (sbc) will fully commercialize their product or technology using non-sbir/sttr funds in phase iii.the development of medical biotechnology products is often impeded by a significant funding gap (known as the “valley of death”). to achieve commercialization, some projects initiated with sbir or sttr funding require considerable grant-in-aid financing beyond the sbir/sttr phase ii award to achieve follow-on investment or commercialization. in particular, the development of regulated products such as therapeutics and medical devices often requires several years and substantial capital investments, due in part to the high costs of clinical trials.in addition, ninds recognizes that companies developing products that have small potential revenue streams or that target small patient populations face additional barriers to market entry that make them less attractive to investors and strategic partners at preclinical or early clinical stages of development. many of these technologies require complex clinical trial designs because of small and geographically diverse patient populations.for the purposes of this foa, ninds has defined small markets as development of novel products that:the goal of this foa is to assist applicants in pursuing the next appropriate milestone(s) necessary to advance a product/technology that requires federal regulatory approval or to bring a complex research tool to market. to achieve this goal, the foa aims to facilitate the transition of previously funded sbir or sttr phase ii projects to the commercialization stage by encouraging business relationships between nih’s sbir/sttr awardees and third-party investors and/or strategic partners. in particular, this foa will give competitive preference and funding priority to applications deemed likely to result in a commercial product as indicated by an applicant's ability to secure partnerships within a broad range of potential third-parties.specific objectivesindependent third-party partnersthis foa is specifically intended to encourage business relationships between applicant sbcs and third-party investors/strategic partners who can provide substantial financing to help accelerate the commercialization of promising new products and technologies initiated with nih sbir or sttr funding. in particular, applicants are expected to leverage their previous nih sbir or sttr support, as well as the opportunity to compete for additional ninds funding under this foa, to negotiate and attract third-party financing needed to advance a product or technology toward commercialization. the applicant’s ability to secure funds will provide a measure of commercial potential that is essential for the sbir applications submitted to this foa. this commercial potential will be strongly considered in making funding decisions. it is anticipated that many of the partnerships between applicant sbcs and third-party partners will involve a considerable level of project due diligence, thereby increasing the likelihood of commercial success for the funded projects. third-party partners include, but are not limited to, another company, a venture capital firm, an “angel” investor, a foundation, a university, a research institution, a state or local government, or any combination of the above. in light of these goals, the ninds strongly encourages applicants to establish business relationships with investors and/or strategic partners that have appropriate prior experience in the commercialization of emerging biomedical technologies.ninds expects companies working in small markets (as defined above) to secure independent third-party funding equal to or greater than one-third of the ninds funds being requested throughout the project period. for all other projects, it is expected that the level of this independent third-party funding will be equal to or greater than the ninds funds being requested throughout the phase iib bridge award project period.scientific/technical scopethis foa is specifically designed to provide additional support for products/technologies that require ultimate approval by a federal regulatory agency or complex research tools. such products include, but are not limited to:the technical and commercial objectives described in the sbir phase iib application must represent an extension of the development efforts that were pursued in a previously funded nih sbir/sttr phase ii grant or contract. applicants are encouraged to read the ninds notice not-ns-11-023 on improving the quality of ninds-supported preclinical and clinical research through rigorous study design and transparent reporting.renewal applications of sbir phase ii awards (i.e. sbir phase iib) to conduct clinical trials are not included in this foa and should be submitted to ninds renewal awards of sbir phase ii grants (phase iib) for clinical trials and clinical research (r44 clinical trial optional). a clinical trial, as defined by the nih, is a research study in which one or more human subjects are prospectively assigned to one or more interventions (which may include placebo or other control) to evaluate the effects of those interventions on health-related biomedical or behavioral outcomes. please read notice not-od-15-015 for more details.an objective of the sbir and sttr programs is to foster and encourage participation in innovation and entrepreneurship by socially and economically disadvantaged persons and women-owned small businesses. this par encourages applications from diverse teams of investigators, including team members that are underrepresented in the biomedical, behavioral, or clinical research workforce (see data athttp://www.nsf.gov/statistics/showpub.cfm?topid=2&subid=27and the most recent report on women, minorities, and persons with disabilities in science and engineering). such individuals include those from underrepresented racial and ethnic groups, those with disabilities, and those from disadvantaged backgrounds.applicants should take note of the following:applicants are strongly encouraged to leverage existing ninds research resources for their studies whenever possible. such resources may include biospecimens from ninds human biospecimen and data repository (biosend) or informatics system. the ninds biosend repository receives, processes, stores, and distributes biospecimen resources from ninds funded studies that can be shared by the neuroscience research community, and currently banks a variety of biospecimens including dna, plasma, serum, rna, csf, and saliva. the ninds human cell and data repository provides 1) disease-relevant stem cell lines for biomarker discovery, and/or 2) the capacity to bank blood for the creation of new cell lines relevant to their disease of interest. leveraging the resources and support from neurological disorder advocacy groups, private research foundations, academic institutions, other government agencies and the nih intramural program are also encouraged. finally, applicants are encouraged to leverage the resources of ongoing clinical trials supported through other federal or private funds.applications proposing to collect biospecimens are strongly recommended to use the biosend protocols and procedures, and all specimens collected and banked with biosend must come from individuals who have consented to banking and sharing broadly with academia and industry. note that costs for collection are not included as a component of the ninds biomarkers repository award. therefore, most costs for the biospecimen banking are borne by the grantees utilizing this resource (see not-ns-15-046). applicants planning projects in which biospecimens will be collected are strongly advised to consult the biosend website for more information about samples banked at the repository. in addition, applicants are advised to consult with biosend staff to obtain a quote for biospecimen banking costs (email:biosend@iu.edu).see section viii. other information for award authorities and regulations.grant: a support mechanism providing money, property, or both to an eligible entity to carry out an approved project or activity.resubmission (phase iib)the oer glossary and the sf424 (r&r) application guide provide details on these application types. only those application types listed here are allowed for the foa.need help determining whether you are doing a clinical trial?the number of awards is contingent upon nih appropriations and the submission of a sufficient number of meritorious applications.total funding support (direct costs, indirect costs, fee) normally may not exceed $1,710,531 for phase ii awards. nih has received a waiver from sba, as authorized by statute, to exceed these total award amount hard caps for specific topics. the current list of approved topics can be found at https://sbir.nih.gov/funding#omni-sbir. navigate to the “program descriptions and research topics” document, appendix a or the current "sba approved topics list for budget waivers".applicants are strongly encouraged to contact program officials prior to submitting any application in excess of the hard caps listed above and early in the application planning process. in all cases, applicants should propose a budget that is reasonable and appropriate for completion of the research project.phase iib budgets must be submitted in accordance with participating ic-specific budget limitations described in the current sbir/sttr program descriptions and research topics of the nih, cdc and fda. ninds does not generally fund phase ii applications greater than $3,000,000 total funding support, with no more than $1,500,000 total cost in any yeardurations up to 3 years for phase ii may be requested.nih grants policies as described in the nih grants policy statement will apply to the applications submitted and awards made from this foa.only united states small business concerns (sbcs) are eligible to submit applications for this opportunity. a small business concern is one that, at the time of award of phase i and phase ii, meets all of the following criteria:if the concern is more than 50% owned by multiple venture capital operating companies, hedge funds, private equity firms, or any combination of these falls under 3 (ii) or 3 (iii) above, see section iv. application and submission information for additional instructions regarding required application certification.if an employee stock ownership plan owns all or part of the concern, each stock trustee and plan member is considered an owner.if a trust owns all or part of the concern, each trustee and trust beneficiary is considered an owner.definitions:sbcs must also meet the other regulatory requirements found in 13 c.f.r. part 121. business concerns, other than investment companies licensed, or state development companies qualifying under the small business investment act of 1958, 15 u.s.c. 661, et seq., are affiliates of one another when either directly or indirectly, (a) one concern controls or has the power to control the other; or (b) a third-party/parties controls or has the power to control both. business concerns include, but are not limited to, any individual (sole proprietorship) partnership, corporation, joint venture, association, or cooperative. the sf424 (r&r) sbir/sttr application guide should be referenced for detailed eligibility information.small business concerns that are more than 50% owned by multiple venture capital operating companies, hedge funds, private equity firms, or any combination of these are not eligible to apply to the nih sttr program.performance benchmark requirementsphase i to phase ii transition rate benchmark: in accordance with guidance from the sba, the hhs sbir/sttr program is implementing the phase i to phase ii transition rate benchmark required by the sbir/sttr reauthorization act of 2011 and the sbir and sttr extension act of 2022. the benchmark establishes a minimum number of phase ii awards the company must have received relative to a given number of phase i awards received during the 5-fiscal year time period. the transition rate is calculated as the total number of sbir and sttr phase ii awards a company received during the past 5 fiscal years divided by the total number of sbir and sttr phase i awards it received during the past 5 fiscal years excluding the most recently-completed year. the transition rate requirement, agreed upon and established by all 11 sbir agencies, was published for public comment in a federal register notice on october 16, 2012 (77 fr 63410) and amended on may 23, 2013 (78 fr 30951).on june 1 of each year, sba will identify the companies that fail to meet minimum performance requirements.sba calculates individual company phase i to phase ii transition rates using sbir and sttr award information across all federal agencies. sba will notify companies and the relevant officials at the participating agencies. more information on the phase i to phase ii transition rate requirement is available at sbir.gov.phase ii to commercialization benchmark: in accordance with guidance from the sba, the hhs sbir/sttr programs are implementing the phase ii to commercialization rate benchmark for phase i applicants, as required by the sbir/sttr reauthorization act of 2011 and the sbir and sttr extension act of 2022. the commercialization rate benchmark was published in a federal register notice on august 8, 2013 (78 fr 48537), with a reopening of the comment period published on september 26, 2013 (78 fr 59410).non-domestic (non-u.s.) entities (foreign institutions) are not eligible to apply.non-domestic (non-u.s.) components of u.s. organizations are not eligible to apply.foreign components, as defined in the nih grants policy statement, may be allowed.applicant organizationsapplicant organizations must complete and maintain the following registrations as described in the sf 424 (r&r) application guide to be eligible to apply for or receive an award. all registrations must be completed prior to the application being submitted. registration can take 6 weeks or more, so applicants should begin the registration process as soon as possible. the nih policy on late submission of grant applications states that failure to complete registrations in advance of a due date is not a valid reason for a late submission.program directors/principal investigators (pd(s)/pi(s))all pd(s)/pi(s) must have an era commons account. pd(s)/pi(s) should work with their organizational officials to either create a new account or to affiliate their existing account with the applicant organization in era commons. if the pd/pi is also the organizational signing official, they must have two distinct era commons accounts, one for each role. obtaining an era commons account can take up to 2 weeks.any individual(s) with the skills, knowledge, and resources necessary to carry out the proposed research as the program director(s)/principal investigator(s) (pd(s)/pi(s)) is invited to work with his/her organization to develop an application for support. individuals from underrepresented racial and ethnic groups as well as individuals with disabilities are always encouraged to apply for nih support.under the sbir program, for both phase i and phase ii, the primary employment of the pd/pi must be with the small business concern at the time of award and during the conduct of the proposed project. for projects with multiple pds/pis, at least one must meet the primary employment requirement. occasionally, deviations from this requirement may occur.for the sttr program, the pd(s)/pi(s) may be employed with the sbc or the single, “partnering” non-profit research institution as long as s/he has a formal appointment with or commitment to the applicant sbc, which is characterized by an official relationship between the sbc and that individual. such a relationship does not necessarily involve a salary or other form of remuneration the primary employment of the pd/pi must be with the sbc or the research institution (where they are pd/pi at) at the time of award and during the conduct of the proposed project.each pd/pi must commit a minimum of 10% effort to the project.the sf424 (r&r) sbir/sttr application guide should be referenced for specific details on eligibility requirements. for institutions/organizations proposing multiple pds/pis, see multiple principal investigators section of the sf424 (r&r) sbir/sttr application guide.number of applicationsapplicant organizations may submit more than one application, provided that each application is scientifically distinct.nih will not accept similar grant applications with essentially the same research focus from the same applicant organization. this includes derivative or multiple applications that propose to develop a single product, process, or service that, with non-substantive modifications, can be applied to a variety of purposes. applicants may not simultaneously submit identical/essentially identical applications under both this funding opportunity and any other hhs funding opportunity, including the sbir and sttr parent announcements.the nih will not accept duplicate or highly overlapping applications under review at the same time. this means that the nih will not accept:a phase i awardee may submit a phase ii application either before or after expiration of the phase i budget period, unless the awardee elects to submit a phase i and phase ii application concurrently under the fast-track procedure. to maintain eligibility to seek phase ii or iib support, a phase i awardee should submit a phase ii application, and a phase ii awardee should submit a phase iib application, within the first six due dates following the expiration of the phase i or ii budget period, respectively.in phase ii, normally, one-half or 50% of the research or analytical effort is carried out by the small business concern. the total amount of consultant and contractual arrangements to third parties for portions of the scientific and technical effort is generally not more than 50% of the total phase ii amount requested (direct, f&a/indirect, and fee).we encourage you to contact a program officer listed in section vii with questions about this because occasionally, deviations from these requirements may occur, and must be approved in writing by the funding agreement officer after consultation with the agency sbir program manager/coordinator.a small business concern may subcontract a portion of its sbir or sttr award to a federal laboratory within the limits above. a federal laboratory, as defined in 15 u.s.c. § 3703, means any laboratory, any federally funded research and development center, or any center established under 15 u.s.c. §§ 3705 & 3707 that is owned, leased, or otherwise used by a federal agency and funded by the federal government, whether operated by the government or by a contractor.the basis for determining the percentage of work to be performed by each of the cooperative parties in phase i or phase ii will be the total of the requested costs attributable to each party, unless otherwise described and justified in “consortium/contractual arrangements” of the phs 398 research plan component of sf424 (r&r) application forms.additional details are contained in the sf424 (r&r) sbir/sttr application guide.the application forms package specific to this opportunity must be accessed through assist, grants.gov workspace or an institutional system-to-system solution. links to apply using assist or grants.gov workspace are available in part 1 of this foa. see your administrative office for instructions if you plan to use an institutional system-to-system solution.it is critical that applicants follow the sbir/sttr (b) instructions in the sf424 (r&r) sbir/sttr application guide, except where instructed in this funding opportunity announcement to do otherwise. conformance to the requirements in the application guide is required and strictly enforced. applications that are out of compliance with these instructions may be delayed or not accepted for review.although a letter of intent is not required, is not binding, and does not enter into the review of a subsequent application, the information that it contains allows ic staff to estimate the potential review workload and plan the review.by the date listed in part 1. overview information, prospective applicants are asked to submit a letter of intent that includes the following information:the letter of intent should be sent to: emily caporello, ph.d. national institute of neurological disorders and stroke (ninds) telephone: 301-496-1778 email: emily.caporello@nih.govall page limitations described in the sf424 (r&r) sbir/sttr application guide and the table of page limits must be followed.note: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023, the data management and sharing (dms) plan will be attached in the other plan(s) attachment in forms-h subsequent application forms packages. for due dates on or before january 24, 2023, the data sharing plan and genomic data sharing plan gds) will continue to be attached in the resource sharing plan attachment in forms-g application forms packages.the following section supplements the instructions found in the sf424 (r&r) sbir/sttr application guide and should be used for preparing an application to this foa.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) sbir/sttr application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) sbir/sttr application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) sbir/sttr application guide must be followed with the following additional instructions:other attachments:1. sbir application certification for small business concerns majority-owned by multiple venture capital operating companies, hedge funds, or private equity firmsapplicant small business concerns that are majority-owned by multiple venture capital operating companies, hedge funds, or private equity firms (e.g. majority vcoc-owned) are required to submit a certification at time of their application submission per the sbir policy directive. follow the instructions below.applicants small business concerns who are more than 50% directly owned and controlled by one or more individuals (who are citizens or permanent resident aliens of the united states), other business concerns (each of which is more than 50% directly owned and controlled by individuals who are citizens or permanent resident aliens of the united states), or any combination of these (i.e. not majority vcoc-owned) should not fill out this certification and should not attach it their application package.2. fundraising plan documentation: documents related to third-party-investors and their commitment (to be included in support of the commercialization plan)include documentation of support from third-party investors such as term sheets or redacted bank statements or other appropriate documents (other than letters of support). collate all such documents in one pdf file (with the list of attached documents at the beginning). use filename "third-party investors". (note that this filename will become a bookmark in the application.)3. regulatory plan documentationapplicants are strongly encouraged to submit evidence that they have contacted the appropriate regulatory authority and that their research plan and objectives follow the relevant requirements or guidance of that authority. examples that provide evidence of appropriate interactions are: 1) letters or emails between the sbc and the appropriate fda center personnel 2) meeting minutes concerning a pre-submission meeting or regarding a 510(k), ide, pma, hde, bla, ind, or nda applicationsbir/sttr informationcommercialization plan:all applicants are expected to describe a realistic plan (extending beyond sbir phase iib), which outlines how and when full commercialization can be accomplished. the full commercialization of the product/technology should be carried out with non-sbir funds.the following subsections with the headings should be included within the commercialization plan, in addition to the requirements listed in the sf424 application guide:a) value of the sbir/sttr project, expected outcomes, and impact: follow the instructions provided in the sf424 application guide.b) company: follow the instructions provided in the sf424 application guide, with the following additions: an objective of the sbir and sttr programs is to foster and encourage participation in innovation and entrepreneurship by socially and economically disadvantaged persons and women-owned small businesses. describe the company’s approach to attract and retain new and senior employees with diverse backgrounds underrepresented in the in the entrepreneurial, biomedical, behavioral, or clinical research workforce (see https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/notice-files/not-od-20-031.html). such individuals may include those from underrepresented racial and ethnic groups, those with disabilities, women, and those from disadvantaged backgrounds (https://www.sba.gov/contracting/government-contracting-programs/8a-business-development-program/eligibility-requirements/social-disadvantage-eligibility).c) market, customer, and competition: follow the instructions provided in the sf424 application guide.d) intellectual property (ip) protection: follow the instructions provided in the sf424 application guide. applicants are encouraged to prepare this section of the application in consultation with partnering institution's technology transfer officials, if applicable.applicants should describe the ip landscape surrounding their investigational drug, biologic or therapeutic device. applicants should describe any known constraints that could impede the development of their investigational drug, biologic, or therapeutic device (e.g., certain restrictions under transfer or sharing agreements, applicants' previous or present ip filings and publications, similar technologies that are under patent and/or on the market, etc.) and how these issues could be addressed. if the applicants propose using an investigational drug, biologic, device, or technology whose ip is not owned by the small business, applicants should include a letter from any entities owning the ip indicating there will not be any limitations imposed on the studies or the product which would impede achieving the goals of this funding program.if patents pertinent to the investigational drug, biologic, or therapeutic device being developed under this application have been filed, the applicant should indicate the details of filing dates, what types of patents are filed, and application status, and associated uspto links, if applicable.applicants should discuss future ip filing plans. for a multiple-pd/pi, multiple-institution application, applicants should describe the infrastructure of each institution for bringing the technologies to practical application and for coordinating these efforts (e.g., licensing, managing ip) among the institutions, consistent with achieving the goals of the program. applicants should clarify how ip will be shared or otherwise managed if there are multiple pd/pis and institutions involved, consistent with achieving the goals of the program.e. finance plan [this section replaces section e finance plan described in the sf424 application guide].applicants are expected to provide a fundraising plan including the following information:the ninds considers the raising of independent third-party investor funds to be an important means to facilitate and accelerate the capital-intensive steps that are required to commercialize new products/technologies emerging from nih-funded sbir/sttr phase ii projects. as such, the ninds expects that applicants for the sbir phase iib will secure substantial independent third-party investor funds. ninds expects companies working in small markets (as defined above in section i. purpose) to secure independent third-party funding equal to or greater than one-third of the ninds funds being requested throughout the project period. for all other projects, it is expected that the level of this independent third-party funding will be equal to or greater than the ninds funds being requested throughout the phase iib bridge award project period.examples of third-party investors include, but are not necessarily limited to, another company, a venture capital firm, an individual “angel” investor, a foundation, a university, a research institution, a state or local government, strategic or industry partner, or any combination of the above. third-party investors generally should not include owners of the applicant sbc, their family members, and/or “affiliates” of the applicant sbc. revenue will be considered on a case-by-case basis. independent third-party investor funds generally does not include in-kind support and/or intangible assets,. applicants should clearly indicate within their third-party fundraising plan the total amount of funding that will be secured from the preferred sources listed abovesbir-eligible public companies may include as part of their fundraising plan the issuance of stock. in such a case, the preferred documentation is a letter of commitment, signed by the chairman of the board of directors, which stipulates the following: (1) the amount of capital raised from the issuance of stock; (2) the amount of capital that will be dedicated to the proposed project under this foa; (3) sufficient information regarding the use of the dedicated capital to demonstrate a substantial, value-added contribution toward the development and commercialization of the product/technology to be developed under this foa (see instructions below under “use of third-party investment funds”).applicants are expected to document their matching funds (or plans for raising them) as concretely as possible. for example, plans to raise additional funds from venture capital and/or strategic partners should name specific companies and investors. documentation should be included in the "other attachments" and "letters of support”.it is likely that several months will have elapsed between the time an application is submitted and the time it is peer reviewed and subsequently considered for possible funding. accordingly, applicants should present a detailed summary of all past and/or planned (i.e., future/expected) third-party investor funds which clearly shows, relative to the estimated award date, when these funds have been and/or will be secured. for example, if the fundraising efforts of the sbc are in progress, and/or if the third-party investment is contingent upon nih selecting the application for funding, then such plans should be clearly described in the fundraising plan.applicants seeking further information regarding preferred sources and/or types of support that would demonstrate a third-party investor commitment are strongly encouraged to communicate with the scientific/research contact(s) listed under section vii.f) production and marketing plan: follow the instructions provided in the sf424 application guideg) revenue stream: follow the instructions provided in the sf424 application guideh.) statement of needapplicants must provide a concise “statement of need”. this statement is expected to provide answers to the questions listed below.i) sbir/sttr commercialization historyapplicants should provide an sbir/sttr commercialization history that addresses the questions listed below. the following questions should be addressed for all sbir/sttr awards received from any federal agency.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) sbir/sttr application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) sbir/sttr application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) sbir/sttr application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) sbir/sttr application guide must be followed.other plan(s):note: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023, the data management and sharing plan will be attached in the other plan(s) attachment in forms-h and subsequent application forms packages. for due dates on or before january 24, 2023, the data sharing plan and genomic data sharing plan gds) will continue to be attached in the resource sharing plan attachment in forms-g application forms packages.all applicants planning research (funded or conducted in whole or in part by nih) that results in the generation of scientific data are required to comply with the instructions for the data management and sharing plan. all small business innovation research (sbir) and small business technology transfer (sttr) applicants are required to address a data management and sharing plan, regardless of the amount of direct costs requested for any one year. however, sbir and sttr recipients may retain the rights to data generated during the performance of an sbir or sttr award for up to 20 years after the award date, per the small business innovation research (sbir) and small business technology transfer (sttr) program policy directive. an acceptable data management and sharing plan can reference and incorporate these data rights. further information about sbir and sttr data rights are enumerated in the nih gps.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) sbir/sttr application guide must be followed.with the following additional instructions:letters of supportinclude letters of support documenting commitments from third-party investors. letters of support from these institutional partners should indicate any actual or planned/conditional financial commitment as a specific dollar figure or range, consistent with the instructions provided under section iv.2, other attachments, “fundraising plan documentation”. appropriate documentation of third-party investor commitment(s) may include a conditional letter of support stating that the third-party funding is contingent upon nih selecting the application for an award.sbir-eligible public companies may include as part of their fundraising plan the issuance of stock. in such a case, the preferred documentation is a letter of support, signed by the chairman of the board of directors, which stipulates the following: (1) the amount of capital raised from the issuance of stock; (2) the amount of capital that will be dedicated to the proposed project under this foa; (3) sufficient information regarding the use of the dedicated capital to demonstrate a substantial, value-added contribution toward the development and commercialization of the product or service to be developed under this foa.resource sharing plan: individuals are required to comply with the instructions for the resource sharing plans as provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.appendix:note that phase i sbir/sttr appendix materials are not permitted. only limited items are allowed in the appendix of other small business applications. the instructions for the appendix of the research plan are described in the sf424 (r&r) application guide; any instructions provided here are in addition to the sf424 (r&r) application guide instructions.when involving human subjects research, clinical research, and/or nih-defined clinical trials follow all instructions for the phs human subjects and clinical trials information form in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, with the following additional instructions:if you answered “yes” to the question “are human subjects involved?” on the r&r other project information form, you must include at least one human subjects study record using the study record: phs human subjects and clinical trials information form or delayed onset study record.study record: phs human subjects and clinical trials informationall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.note: delayed onset does not apply to a study that can be described but will not start immediately (i.e., delayed start). all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) sbir/sttr application guide must be followed.see part 1. section iii.1 for information regarding the requirement for obtaining a unique entity identifier and for completing and maintaining active registrations in system for award management (sam), era commons, and grants.govpart i. overview information contains information about key dates and time. applicants are encouraged to submit applications before the due date to ensure they have time to make any application corrections that might be necessary for successful submission. when a submission date falls on a weekend or federal holiday, the application deadline is automatically extended to the next business day.organizations must submit applications to grants.gov (the online portal to find and apply for grants across all federal agencies). applicants must then complete the submission process by tracking the status of the application in the era commons, nih’s electronic system for grants administration. nih and grants.gov systems check the application against many of the application instructions upon submission. errors must be corrected and a changed/corrected application must be submitted to grants.gov on or before the application due date and time. if a changed/corrected application is submitted after the deadline, the application will be considered late. applications that miss the due date and time are subjected to the nih policy on late application submission.applicants are responsible for viewing their application before the due date in the era commons to ensure accurate and successful submission.information on the submission process and a definition of on-time submission are provided in the sf424 (r&r) sbir/sttr application guide.this initiative is not subject to intergovernmental review.all nih awards are subject to the terms and conditions, cost principles, and other considerations described in the nih grants policy statement.pre-award costs are allowable only as described in the nih grants policy statement.applications must be submitted electronically following the instructions described in the sf424 (r&r) sbir/sttr application guide. paper applications will not be accepted.applicants must complete all required registrations before the application due date. section iii. eligibility information contains information about registration.for assistance with your electronic application or for more information on the electronic submission process, visit how to apply – application guide. if you encounter a system issue beyond your control that threatens your ability to complete the submission process on-time, you must follow the dealing with system issues guidance. for assistance with application submission, contact the application submission contacts in section vii.important reminders:all pd(s)/pi(s) must include their era commons id in the credential field of the senior/key person profile component of the sf424(r&r) application package. failure to register in the commons and to include a valid pd/pi commons id in the credential field will prevent the successful submission of an electronic application to nih.the applicant organization must ensure that the duns number it provides on the application is the same number used in the organization’s profile in the era commons and for the system for award management (sam). additional information may be found in the sf424 (r&r) sbir/sttr application guide.see more tips for avoiding common errors.upon receipt, applications will be evaluated for completeness and compliance with application instructions by the center for scientific review, nih. applications that are incomplete or non-compliant will not be reviewed.note: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023, the data sharing plan and genomic data sharing plan (gds) as part of the resource sharing plan will not be evaluated at time of review.only the review criteria described below will be considered in the review process. applications submitted to the nih in support of the nih mission are evaluated for scientific and technical merit through the nih peer review system.reviewers will provide an overall impact score to reflect their assessment of the likelihood for the project to exert a sustained, powerful influence on the research field(s) involved, in consideration of the following review criteria and additional review criteria (as applicable for the project proposed).reviewers will consider each of the review criteria below in the determination of scientific merit, and give a separate score for each. an application does not need to be strong in all categories to be judged likely to have major scientific impact. for example, a project that by its nature is not innovative may be essential to advance a field.significancedoes the project address an important problem or a critical barrier to progress in the field?is the prior research that serves as the key support for the proposed project rigorous? if the aims of the project are achieved, how will scientific knowledge, technical capability, and/or clinical practice be improved? how will successful completion of the aims change the concepts, methods, technologies, treatments, services, or preventative interventions that drive this field? does the proposed project have commercial potential to lead to a marketable product, process or service? (in the case of phase ii, fast-track, and phase ii competing renewals, does the commercialization plan demonstrate a high probability of commercialization?)investigator(s)are the pd(s)/pi(s), collaborators, and other researchers well suited to the project? if early stage investigators or those in the early stages of independent careers, do they have appropriate experience and training? if established, have they demonstrated an ongoing record of accomplishments that have advanced their field(s)? if the project is collaborative or multi-pd/pi, do the investigators have complementary and integrated expertise; are their leadership approach, governance and organizational structure appropriate for the project?foa specific criteria: to what extent do the prior experience and qualifications of the project team members lend confidence that the team will be successful in commercializing the proposed product/technology? for example, how successful have the pd(s)/pi(s) been in commercializing other sbir/sttr-supported technologies and discoveries in the past?innovationdoes the application challenge and seek to shift current research or clinical practice paradigms by utilizing novel theoretical concepts, approaches or methodologies, instrumentation, or interventions? are the concepts, approaches or methodologies, instrumentation, or interventions novel to one field of research or novel in a broad sense? is a refinement, improvement, or new application of theoretical concepts, approaches or methodologies, instrumentation, or interventions proposed?approachare the overall strategy, methodology, and analyses well-reasoned and appropriate to accomplish the specific aims of the project? have the investigators included plans to address weaknesses in the rigor of prior research that serves as the key support for the proposed project? have the investigators presented strategies to ensure a robust and unbiased approach, as appropriate for the work proposed? are potential problems, alternative strategies, and benchmarks for success presented? if the project is in the early stages of development, will the strategy establish feasibility and will particularly risky aspects be managed? for a phase i application, are there clear, appropriate, measurable goals (milestones) that should be achieved prior to initiating phase ii? have the investigators presented adequate plans to address relevant biological variables, such as sex, for studies in vertebrate animals or human subjects?foa specific criteria: how promising are the outcomes of the previously funded nih sbir/sttr phase ii project upon which the proposed sbir phase iib is predicated? to what extent does the progress justify the continuation of the development efforts?how appropriate are the proposed milestones for the sbir phase iib in determining whether the awardee has successfully reached the specified goals (e.g., ind filing)? if the proposed project involves advancing the product/technology through the federal regulatory approval process, how sound is the proposed plan to meet these requirements?if the project involves human subjects and/or nih-defined clinical research, are the plans to address1) the protection of human subjects from research risks, and2) inclusion (or exclusion) of individuals on the basis of sex/gender, race, and ethnicity, as well as the inclusion or exclusion of individuals of all ages (including children and older adults), justified in terms of the scientific goals and research strategy proposed?environmentwill the scientific environment in which the work will be done contribute to the probability of success? are the institutional support, equipment and other physical resources available to the investigators adequate for the project proposed? will the project benefit from unique features of the scientific environment, subject populations, or collaborative arrangement?foa specific criteria: have necessary agreements with participating industry partners, if necessary, been established? to what extent does the applicant sbc have the ability to address regulatory issues, either through their own staff members or through appropriate arrangements with external regulatory consultants? if the sbc has received previous sbir/sttr funding from any federal agency, how successful is the company’s track record in commercializing prior sbir/sttr projects?as applicable for the project proposed, reviewers will evaluate the following additional items while determining scientific and technical merit, and in providing an overall impact score, but will not give separate scores for these items.commercialization planmarket, customer, and competitionhow compelling is the value proposition, and to what extent does the application demonstrate a substantial market-pull for the technology under development? how well has the applicant described the market niche(s) for the product/technology, and how urgent is the unmet need(s) being addressed? to what extent has the applicant identified realistic, market-based milestones that can be achieved over the next five years?how well has the applicant demonstrated an understanding of the competitive environment in which they plan to sell their product? to what extent has the applicant identified their customers and demonstrated a clear understanding of their needs? how well has the company addressed potential hurdles that may delay or prevent acceptance of their product? how reasonable are the applicant's plans for generating a revenue stream, and how realistic are the revenue projections?companyhow well can the applicant sbc sustain itself and grow as a business? to what extent will the applicant's business alliances and/or corporate partnerships help in facilitating commercialization? for example, will third-party investors play an active role in facilitating the commercialization of the product/technology, and if so to what extent? is an appropriate approach to enhancing diversity and inclusion in the company discussed?intellectual property (ip)how strong is the applicant's intellectual property (ip) portfolio/position (pertinent to the proposed project), and to what extent does the company have a reasonable strategy to protect its ip going forward?fundraising planhow well does the application support the ability of the sbc to establish relationships with third-party investors and/or strategic partners and secure substantial independent third-party investor funds as expected under this foa? ninds expects companies working in small markets to secure independent third-party funding equal to or greater than one-third of the ninds funds being requested throughout the project period. for all other projects, it is expected that the level of this independent third-party funding will be equal to or greater than the ninds funds being requested throughout the phase iib bridge award project period.how detailed is the documentation (e.g., term sheet) that has been provided by the applicant to corroborate the fundraising plan? to what extent has the applicant demonstrated that the third-party investor support will provide a substantial, value-added contribution toward the development and commercialization of the product/technology? for example, has the applicant described the specific activities that the third-party investor funds will support?if the third-party investors have attached restrictions and/or triggers and/or milestones to future payments, then to what extent have these restrictions been clearly stipulated in the application? in general, have the terms of the future investment rounds been sufficiently described, thus demonstrating a high level of confidence in the sbc’s ability to execute the overall fundraising plan?phase ii applicationsfor phase ii applications, how well did the applicant demonstrate progress toward meeting the phase i (or phase i-like) objectives, demonstrating feasibility, and providing a solid foundation for the proposed phase ii activity?phase i/phase ii fast-track applicationsnot applicableprotections for human subjectsfor research that involves human subjects but does not involve one of the categories of research that are exempt under 45 cfr part 46, the committee will evaluate the justification for involvement of human subjects and the proposed protections from research risk relating to their participation according to the following five review criteria: 1) risk to subjects, 2) adequacy of protection against risks, 3) potential benefits to the subjects and others, 4) importance of the knowledge to be gained, and 5) data and safety monitoring for clinical trials.for research that involves human subjects and meets the criteria for one or more of the categories of research that are exempt under 45 cfr part 46, the committee will evaluate: 1) the justification for the exemption, 2) human subjects involvement and characteristics, and 3) sources of materials. for additional information on review of the human subjects section, please refer to the guidelines for the review of human subjects.inclusion of women, minorities, and individuals across the lifespanwhen the proposed project involves human subjects and/or nih-defined clinical research, the committee will evaluate the proposed plans for the inclusion (or exclusion) of individuals on the basis of sex/gender, race, and ethnicity, as well as the inclusion (or exclusion) of individuals of all ages (including children and older adults) to determine if it is justified in terms of the scientific goals and research strategy proposed. for additional information on review of the inclusion section, please refer to the guidelines for the review of inclusion in clinical research.vertebrate animalsthe committee will evaluate the involvement of live vertebrate animals as part of the scientific assessment according to the following criteria: (1) description of proposed procedures involving animals, including species, strains, ages, sex, and total number to be used; (2) justifications for the use of animals versus alternative models and for the appropriateness of the species proposed; (3) interventions to minimize discomfort, distress, pain and injury; and (4) justification for euthanasia method if not consistent with the avma guidelines for the euthanasia of animals. reviewers will assess the use of chimpanzees as they would any other application proposing the use of vertebrate animals. for additional information on review of the vertebrate animals section, please refer to the worksheet for review of the vertebrate animal section.biohazardsreviewers will assess whether materials or procedures proposed are potentially hazardous to research personnel and/or the environment, and if needed, determine whether adequate protection is proposed.resubmissionsfor resubmissions, the committee will evaluate the application as now presented, taking into consideration the responses to comments from the previous scientific review group and changes made to the project.phase iib competing renewalsfor phase iib applications, the committee will consider the progress made in the last funding period.revisionsfor revisions, the committee will consider the appropriateness of the proposed expansion of the scope of the project. if the revision application relates to a specific line of investigation presented in the original application that was not recommended for approval by the committee, then the committee will consider whether the responses to comments from the previous scientific review group are adequate and whether substantial changes are clearly evident.note: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023, the data sharing plan and genomic data sharing plan (gds) as part of the resource sharing plan will not be evaluated at time of review.as applicable for the project proposed, reviewers will consider each of the following items, but will not give scores for these items, and should not consider them in providing an overall impact score.select agent researchreviewers will assess the information provided in this section of the application, including 1) the select agent(s) to be used in the proposed research, 2) the registration status of all entities where select agent(s) will be used, 3) the procedures that will be used to monitor possession use and transfer of select agent(s), and 4) plans for appropriate biosafety, biocontainment, and security of the select agent(s).reviewers will comment on whether the following resource sharing plans, or the rationale for not sharing the following types of resources, are reasonable: (1) data sharing plan; (2) sharing model organisms; and (3) genomic data sharing plan.authentication of key biological and/or chemical resources:for projects involving key biological and/or chemical resources, reviewers will comment on the brief plans proposed for identifying and ensuring the validity of those resources.budget and period of supportreviewers will consider whether the budget and the requested period of support are fully justified and reasonable in relation to the proposed research.applications will be evaluated for scientific and technical merit by (an) appropriate scientific review group(s) convened by center for scientific review, in accordance with nih peer review policy and procedures, using the stated review criteria. assignment to a scientific review group will be shown in the era commons.as part of the scientific peer review, all applications will receive a written critique.applications will be assigned on the basis of established phs referral guidelines to the appropriate nih institute or center. applications will compete for available funds with all other recommended applications submitted in response to this foa. following initial peer review, recommended applications will receive a second level of review by the appropriate national advisory council or board. the following will be considered in making funding decisions:information regarding the disposition of applications is available in the nih grants policy statement.if the application is under consideration for funding, nih will request "just-in-time" information from the applicant as described in the nih grants policy statement.a formal notification in the form of a notice of award (noa) will be provided to the applicant organization for successful applications. the noa signed by the grants management officer is the authorizing document and will be sent via email to the recipient's business official.awardees must comply with any funding restrictions described in section iv.5. funding restrictions. selection of an application for award is not an authorization to begin performance. any costs incurred before receipt of the noa are at the recipient's risk. these costs may be reimbursed only to the extent considered allowable pre-award costs.any application awarded in response to this foa will be subject to terms and conditions found on the award conditions and information for nih grants website. this includes any recent legislation and policy applicable to awards that is highlighted on this website.all nih grant and cooperative agreement awards include the nih grants policy statement as part of the noa. for these terms of award, see the nih grants policy statement part ii: terms and conditions of nih grant awards, subpart a: general and part ii: terms and conditions of nih grant awards, subpart b: terms and conditions for specific types of grants, recipients, and activities. more information is provided at award conditions and information for nih grants.recipients of federal financial assistance (ffa) from hhs must administer their programs in compliance with federal civil rights laws that prohibit discrimination on the basis of race, color, national origin, disability, age and, in some circumstances, religion, conscience, and sex. this includes ensuring programs are accessible to persons with limited english proficiency. the hhs office for civil rights provides guidance on complying with civil rights laws enforced by hhs. please see https://www.hhs.gov/civil-rights/for-providers/provider-obligations/index.html and http://www.hhs.gov/ocr/civilrights/understanding/section1557/index.html.hhs recognizes that research projects are often limited in scope for many reasons that are nondiscriminatory, such as the principal investigator’s scientific interest, funding limitations, recruitment requirements, and other considerations. thus, criteria in research protocols that target or exclude certain populations are warranted where nondiscriminatory justifications establish that such criteria are appropriate with respect to the health or safety of the subjects, the scientific study design, or the purpose of the research. for additional guidance regarding how the provisions apply to nih grant programs, please contact the scientific/research contact that is identified in section vii under agency contacts of this foa.please contact the hhs office for civil rights for more information about obligations and prohibitions under federal civil rights laws at https://www.hhs.gov/ocr/about-us/contact-us/index.html or call 1-800-368-1019 or tdd 1-800-537-7697.in accordance with the statutory provisions contained in section 872 of the duncan hunter national defense authorization act of fiscal year 2009 (public law 110-417), nih awards will be subject to the federal awardee performance and integrity information system (fapiis) requirements. fapiis requires federal award making officials to review and consider information about an applicant in the designated integrity and performance system (currently fapiis) prior to making an award. an applicant, at its option, may review information in the designated integrity and performance systems accessible through fapiis and comment on any information about itself that a federal agency previously entered and is currently in fapiis. the federal awarding agency will consider any comments by the applicant, in addition to other information in fapiis, in making a judgement about the applicant’s integrity, business ethics, and record of performance under federal awards when completing the review of risk posed by applicants as described in 45 cfr part 75.205 “federal awarding agency review of risk posed by applicants.” this provision will apply to all nih grants and cooperative agreements except fellowships.the office of inspector general hotline accepts tips from all sources about potential fraud, waste, abuse and mismanagement in department of health & human services programs. the reporting individual should indicate that the fraud, waste and/or abuse concerns an sbir/sttr grant or contract, if relevant. report fraud.not applicabledata management and sharingnote: the nih policy for data management and sharing is effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023.consistent with the nih policy for data management and sharing, when data management and sharing is applicable to the award, recipients will be required to adhere to the data management and sharing requirements as outlined in the nih grants policy statement (gps). upon the approval of a data management and sharing plan, it is required for recipients to implement the plan as described. sbir and sttr recipients may retain the rights to data generated during the performance of an sbir or sttr award for up to 20 years after the award date, per the small business innovation research (sbir) and small business technology transfer (sttr) program policy directive. an acceptable data management and sharing plan can reference and incorporate these data rights. further information about sbir and sttr data rights are enumerated in the nih gps.nih requires that sbir/sttr recipients submit the following reports within 120 days of the end of the grant budget period unless the recipient is under an extension. when multiple years are involved, awardees will be required to submit the research performance progress report (rppr) annually and financial statements as required in the nih grants policy statement.failure to submit timely final reports may affect future funding to the organization or awards with the same pd/pi.the federal funding accountability and transparency act of 2006 (transparency act), includes a requirement for awardees of federal grants to report information about first-tier subawards and executive compensation under federal assistance awards issued in fy2011 or later. all awardees of applicable nih grants and cooperative agreements are required to report to the federal subaward reporting system (fsrs) available at www.fsrs.gov on all subawards over $25,000. see the nih grants policy statement for additional information on this reporting requirement.in accordance with the regulatory requirements provided at 45 cfr 75.113 and appendix xii to 45 cfr part 75, recipients that have currently active federal grants, cooperative agreements, and procurement contracts from all federal awarding agencies with a cumulative total value greater than $10,000,000 for any period of time during the period of performance of a federal award, must report and maintain the currency of information reported in the system for award management (sam) about civil, criminal, and administrative proceedings in connection with the award or performance of a federal award that reached final disposition within the most recent five-year period. the recipient must also make semiannual disclosures regarding such proceedings. proceedings information will be made publicly available in the designated integrity and performance system (currently fapiis). this is a statutory requirement under section 872 of public law 110-417, as amended (41 u.s.c. 2313). as required by section 3010 of public law 111-212, all information posted in the designated integrity and performance system on or after april 15, 2011, except past performance reviews required for federal procurement contracts, will be publicly available. full reporting requirements and procedures are found in appendix xii to 45 cfr part 75 – award term and conditions for recipient integrity and performance matters.we encourage inquiries concerning this funding opportunity and welcome the opportunity to answer questions from potential applicants.era service desk (questions regarding assist, era commons, application errors and warnings, documenting system problems that threaten submission by the due date, and post-submission issues)finding help online: http://grants.nih.gov/support/ (preferred method of contact) telephone: 301-402-7469 or 866-504-9552 (toll free)general grants information (questions regarding application instructions, application processes, and nih grant resources) email: grantsinfo@nih.gov (preferred method of contact) telephone: 301-637-3015grants.gov customer support (questions regarding grants.gov registration and workspace) contact center telephone: 800-518-4726 email: support@grants.govsba company registry (questions regarding required registration at the sba company registry and for technical questions or issues) website to email: http://sbir.gov/feedback?type=regemily caporello, ph.d. national institute of neurological disorders and stroke (ninds) telephone: 301-496-1778 email: emily.caporello@nih.govexamine your era commons account for review assignment and contact information (information appears two weeks after the submission due date).chief grants management officer national institute of neurological disorders and stroke (ninds) email: chiefgrantsmanagementofficer@ninds.nih.govrecently issued trans-nih policy notices may affect your application submission. a full list of policy notices published by nih is provided in the nih guide for grants and contracts. all awards are subject to the terms and conditions, cost principles, and other considerations described in the nih grants policy statement.awards are made under the authorization of sections 301 and 405 of the public health service act as amended (42 usc 241 and 284) and under federal regulations 42 cfr part 52 and 45 cfr part 75.the sbir program is mandated by the small business innovation development act of 1982 (p.l. 97-219), reauthorizing legislation (p.l. 99-443) p.l. 102-564, p.l. 112-81 (sbir/sttr reauthorization act of 2011), as reauthorized and extended under p.l. 114-328, section 1834, and p.l. 115-232. the basic design of the nih sbir program is in accordance with the small business administration (sba) sbir policy directive.weekly toc for this announcement nih funding opportunities and noticesnote: for help accessing pdf, rtf, ms word, excel, powerpoint, audio or video files, see help downloading files.