Postbaccalaureate Research Education Program (PREP)(R25 - Independent Clinical Trial Not Allowed)
https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/pa-files/PAR-22-220.html
national institutes of health (nih)national institute of general medical sciences (nigms)r25 education projectsnot-od-23-012 reminder: forms-h grant application forms and instructions must be used for due dates on or after january 25, 2023 - new grant application instructions now availablenot-gm-23-021 -notice of informational webinar for the nigms postbaccalaureate research education program (prep) (r25)not-od-22-190 - adjustments to nih and ahrq grant application due dates between september 22 and september 30, 2022july 22, 2019 - requirement for orcid ids for individuals supported by research training, fellowship, research education, and career development awards beginning in fy 2020. see notice not-od-19-109see section iii. 3. additional information on eligibility.the nih research education program (r25) supports research education activities in the mission areas of the nih. the overarching goal of this r25 program is to support educational activities that encourage individuals from diverse backgrounds, including those from groups underrepresented in the biomedical and behavioral sciences, to pursue further studies or careers in research.to accomplish the stated over-arching goal, this foa will support creative educational activities with a primary focus on:this funding opportunity announcement (foa) provides support to eligible, domestic institutions to develop and implement effective, evidence-informed approaches to biomedical research education and mentoring that will keep pace with the rapid evolution of the research enterprise. nigms expects that the proposed research education programs will incorporate extensive research experiences and well-designed courses for skills development to prepare recent baccalaureates from diverse backgrounds to transition into and complete rigorous, research-focused biomedical doctoral degree programs (e.g., ph.d. or m.d./ph.d.). this program is limited to applications from doctoral degree-granting institutions that are research-intensive (i.e., those with nih research project grant (rpg) funding averaging greater than or equal to $7.5 million in total costs per year over the last three fiscal years).this foa does not allow appointed participants to lead an independent clinical trial but does allow them to obtain research experience in a clinical trial led by a mentor or co-mentor.not applicableall applications are due by 5:00 pm local time of applicant organization.applicants are encouraged to apply early to allow adequate time to make any corrections to errors found in the application during the submission process by the due date.not applicableit is critical that applicants follow the instructions in the research (r) instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, except where instructed to do otherwise (in this foa or in a notice from nih guide for grants and contracts).conformance to all requirements (both in the application guide and the foa) is required and strictly enforced. applicants must read and follow all application instructions in the application guide as well as any program-specific instructions noted in section iv. when the program-specific instructions deviate from those in the application guide, follow the program-specific instructions.applications that do not comply with these instructions may be delayed or not accepted for review.there are several options available to submit your application through grants.gov to nih and department of health and human services partners. you must use one of these submission options to access the application forms for this opportunity.the nih research education program (r25) supports research educational activities that complement other formal training programs in the mission areas of the nih institutes and centers.the overarching goal of this r25 program is to support educational activities that encourage individuals from diverse backgrounds, including those from groups underrepresented in the biomedical and behavioral sciences, to pursue further studies or careers in research.to accomplish the stated overarching goal, this foa will support creative educational activities with a primary focus on:applications are encouraged from doctoral degree granting research-intensive institutions that propose to develop recent baccalaureate science graduates from diverse backgrounds (e.g., see the notice of the nih's interest in diversity) so that they have the necessary knowledge, skills, and networks to transition into and complete rigorous, research-focused biomedical doctoral degree programs (e.g., ph.d. or m.d./ph.d.).purpose and background informationthe national institutes of health (nih) recognizes the need to diversify the scientific workforce by enhancing the participation of individuals from groups identified as underrepresented in the biomedical, clinical, behavioral, and social sciences (collectively termed "biomedical") research workforce. diversity at all levels -- from the kinds of science to the regions in which it is conducted to the backgrounds of the people conducting it -- is integral to excellence in research training environments and strengthens the research enterprise. research shows that diverse teams working together and capitalizing on innovative ideas and distinct perspectives outperform homogeneous teams. scientists and trainees from diverse backgrounds and life experiences bring different perspectives, creativity, and individual interests to address complex scientific problems. there are many benefits of a diverse nih-supported scientific workforce including fostering scientific innovation, enhancing global competitiveness, contributing to robust learning environments, improving the quality of research, enhancing public trust, and increasing the likelihood that health disparities and the needs of underserved populations are addressed in biomedical research. nih strives to ensure that future generations of researchers will be drawn from the entire pool of talented individuals, bringing different aptitudes, perspectives, interests, and experiences to address complex scientific problems. nih seeks to enhance the diversity of the biomedical research workforce by supporting individuals from a variety of backgrounds at multiple training and career stages in a variety of institutions and educational settings across the country.need for the programpromoting diversity in the extramural scientific workforce is critical to the success of the nih mission and is consistent with the mandates of the 21st century cures act. while scientific workforce diversity supports the nih mission, expanding the pool of academic investigators from nationally underrepresented backgrounds in the biomedical research workforce has remained an elusive goal. nih has a longstanding commitment to training the next generation of biomedical scientists and supporting training of students from diverse backgrounds, for example groups underrepresented in biomedical research, through a variety of fellowships, career development awards, and institutional training and student development programs.in spite of recent advances, individuals from certain groups and backgrounds are underrepresented in the biomedical sciences research workforce as described in the notice of nih's interest in diversity. the severity of the underrepresentation of these groups increases throughout the training stages. for example, students from certain racial and ethnic groups, including black or african american, hispanic or latino/a/x, american indian or alaska native, native hawaiian and other pacific islander comprise ~38 percent of the college age population, but earn only ~23 percent of bachelor’s degrees and ~15 percent of ph.d. degrees in the life sciences (as per data from the national center for science and engineering statistics). additionally, while the united states has seen a significant increase in the number of ph.d. degrees in the biomedical sciences earned by scientists from historically underrepresented racial and ethnic groups in the biomedical research workforce, a corresponding increase in the ranks of the faculty in basic science departments (gibbs, et al., elife 2016; valantine, lund & gammie, cbe-life sciences education, 2016) or nih-funded investigators (hoppe et al., 2019; lauer, 2020) have not occurred.several reports (see for example,acd working group on diversity in the biomedical workforce, 2012; pcast report, 2012; from college to careers: fostering inclusion of persons with disabilities in stem, 2014; increasing college opportunity for low income students, 2014; barriers and opportunities for 2-year and 4-year stem degrees, 2016; and indicators for monitoring undergraduate stem education, 2018) recommend supporting programs that strive to recruit, train, and mentor students from nationally underrepresented groups who have an interest in science, technology, engineering and math (stem) as a means to effectively build a diverse and competitive scientific workforce.programmatic approachthe postbaccalaureate research education program (prep) provides institutions the resources to support and provide research experiences and courses for skills development to research-oriented postbaccalaureate participants from diverse backgrounds who upon completion of a one-year research education program are likely to successfully transition into and complete rigorous research-focused doctoral degree programs (e.g., ph.d. or m.d./ph.d.) in biomedical fields relevant to the nigms mission. this foa is intended to enable the community to develop and implement evidence-informed approaches to biomedical research education and mentoring to enhance diversity in the biomedical research workforce. funded programs are expected to provide activities that will build a strong cohort of research-oriented individuals while enhancing the science identity, self-efficacy, and a sense of belonging among the cohort members in the biomedical research community. programmatic activities include, but are not limited to, providing authentic research experiences, courses for skills development, and additional mentoring -- activities proven to increase persistence in stem fields (cited in pcast report, 2012, graduate stem education for the 21st century, 2018, and the science of effective mentoring in stemm, 2019). program activities should build upon the strengths and assets of prep participants and should not reflect deficit-models (i.e., those that focus primarily on remediation of perceived weaknesses) of career development.each program should provide high-quality research education experiences that equip participants with the technical (e.g., appropriate methods, technologies, and quantitative/computational approaches), operational (e.g., independent knowledge acquisition, rigorous experimental design, and interpretation of data) and professional (e.g., management, leadership, communication, and teamwork) skills required for careers in the biomedical research workforce. funded programs are expected to promote inclusive research environments (i.e., institutional and departmental environments where researchers from all backgrounds are and feel integrated into and supported by the biomedical research community).program objectivethe overarching objective of prep is to develop a diverse pool of well-trained postbaccalaureate participants who will transition into and complete rigorous, research-focused doctoral degree programs (e.g., ph.d. or m.d./ph.d.) in biomedical fields relevant to the nigms mission and have the following technical, operational, and professional skills:diversity is integral to excellence in research environments and strengthens the research enterprise. this foa is intended to support outstanding research education programs that will enhance diversity at all levels of the research environment.program considerationsnigms intends to fund applications that propose feasible research education programs that will enhance diversity in the biomedical workforce. programs are expected to have mentors from a broad range of biomedical disciplines relevant to the nigms mission to provide a breadth of research experiences to participants. proposed programs focused on a single discipline (e.g., neuroscience, immunology, etc.) will be low priority for funding.as postbaccalaureate scientists, the participants will be involved in independent research projects where they will learn to develop and answer scientific questions, allowing them to experience the fulfillment of discovery as scientists. the research environment should be inclusive, supportive and safe, and should include opportunities for the participants to interact with doctoral student peers, postdoctoral researchers, and other investigators who could contribute to their growth and will allow them to thrive in rigorous doctoral programs. prep participants will be required to work as research postbaccalaureates at 9 person-months (75% full-time) effort, with the other 3 person-months (25% full-time effort) devoted to further skills development. academic preparations may include courses, workshops, seminars, supplemental instruction, or lectures that will enhance the technical, operational and professional skills of the participants. the courses taken should be appropriate to the requirements for admission to, and successful completion of rigorous research-focused biomedical doctoral degree programs.funded programs are also expected to implement robust plans to enhance diversity and to promote inclusive, safe, and supportive research environments. specifically, funded programs should have institutional and departmental environments where individuals from all backgrounds are welcomed and feel integrated into and supported by the biomedical community. programs are also expected to implement plans to enhance trainee retention, i.e., to sustain the scientific interests and participation of trainees from all backgrounds. additionally, safety in research training should encompass (1) environments free from harassment and intimidation, in which everyone participating is treated in a respectful and supportive manner, (2) laboratory and clinical settings where individuals exercise the highest standards of practice for chemical, biological and physical safety, and (3) practices at the institutional leadership and research community levels that demonstrate core values and behaviors to emphasize safety over competing goals.program training objectives (i.e., specific, measurable, and obtainable outcomes the program intends to achieve), evidence-informed training interventions, and mentoring activities should be grounded in the literature and from evaluations of existing relevant programs. program objectives must align with the overarching goal of prep. funded programs are expected to provide evidence of accomplishing the training objectives in progress reports and upon renewal, to make training and career outcomes publicly available, and are strongly encouraged to disseminate successful training practices to the broader community.preps should generate carefully designed individual development plans (idps) that build upon the participant’s experience, combined with research projects mentored by faculty members with active extramurally funded research programs. the development plans will typically be designed within the context of a one-year research education program to provide the necessary skills to prepare the participants to transition into and complete rigorous research-focused biomedical higher degree programs (e.g., ph.d. or m.d./ph.d.).participants should not be appointed for less than one year, and it is expected that most prep participants will transition to a rigorous, research-focused biomedical doctoral degree program following a one-year postbaccalaureate experience. nigms also recognizes that each participant has individual strengths and areas of academic development, and that a one-year program may not be sufficient for some to fully prepare to be competitive for a rigorous, research-focused biomedical doctoral degree program. therefore, a second year of support is allowable at the discretion of the prep program director/principal investigator (pd/pi) if within the awarded costs of a particular program. this does not require nigms preapproval but should be used selectively for those participants who would benefit from a second year in the program. the second-year experience must enhance participants' competitiveness to enter a rigorous doctoral program and not simply allow participants more time to decide if they wish to obtain a graduate degree or to explore other career options. this program will not support individuals earning master's degrees or individuals who have previously earned a graduate or professional degree.prep applications are institutional in nature and should reflect the plans and priorities of the applicant institution. institutional commitment and support for the proposed training program are important elements of the application. the prep program may complement and synergize with other ongoing federally-supported research training programs at the applicant institution (e.g., in the development of skills needed for careers in the biomedical research workforce); however, the prep goals and activities to achieve those goals must be distinct from related programs currently receiving federal support at the same institution. in cases where an institution has multiple nigms training and diversity enhancing programs, it is expected that these programs will seek to create administrative efficiencies to reduce costs and improve participant services and outcomes. the research education grant should be well integrated within one or more department(s)/program(s) relevant to nigms mission areas. it is also anticipated that prep awards will have an institutional impact by helping awardee institutions to achieve greater diversity in their doctoral programs (e.g., through adoption of effective practices of the prep program to create institutional change, through recruitment of successful prep participants into doctoral programs). prep grants are usually awarded for five years.research education programs may complement ongoing research training and education occurring at the applicant institution, but the proposed educational experiences must be distinct from those training and education programs currently receiving federal support. r25 programs may augment institutional research training programs (e.g., t32, t90) but cannot be used to replace or circumvent ruth l. kirschstein national research service award (nrsa) programs.it is expected that upon completion of the program, prep participants transition into and complete rigorous, research-focused biomedical doctoral programs (e.g., ph.d. or m.d./ph.d.). since prep participants should have an interest in obtaining a research-focused biomedical doctoral degree as a condition of enrollment in the program, nigms expects that a successful prep will provide the knowledge and skills such that the vast majority (e.g., greater than 75%) of its participants enter such programs within two years of completing prep. furthermore, with this expertise and experience, nigms expects that prep participants who enter research-focused biomedical doctoral degree programs will complete the degree at rates comparable to or greater than students in similar disciplines at their institutions. applicant institutions should design their program strategies within the context of the nigms' expectations and in line with their institutional settings and missions.this foa does not allow appointed participants to lead an independent clinical trial but does allow them to obtain research experience in a clinical trial led by a mentor or co-mentor. nih strongly supports training towards a career in clinically relevant research and so gaining experience in clinical trials under the guidance of a mentor or co-mentor is permitted.see section viii. other information for award authorities and regulations.grant: a support mechanism providing money, property, or both to an eligible entity to carry out an approved project or activity.not allowed: only accepting applications that do not propose clinical trial(s).need help determining whether you are doing a clinical trial?the number of awards is contingent upon nih appropriations and the submission of a sufficient number of meritorious applications.the total direct costs for each award are limited to $400,000 annually.the total project period may not exceed 5 years.individuals designing, directing, and implementing the research education program may request salary and fringe benefits appropriate for the person months devoted to the program. salaries requested may not exceed the levels commensurate with the institution's policy for similar positions and may not exceed the congressionally mandated cap. (if mentoring interactions and other activities with participants are considered a regular part of an individual's academic duties, then any costs associated with the mentoring and other interactions with participants are not allowable costs from grant funds).salary support for the pd(s)/pi(s) [or combination of multiple pd(s)/pi(s)] is limited to up to a total of 1.2 person-months (10% full-time) effort per year depending on the number of participants in the program and the person-months devoted to administration of the program. salary for a program coordinator to assist the pd(s)/pi(s) is limited to up to 6 person-months (50% full time) depending on the number of participants in the program and the person-months devoted to administration of the program. the duties and responsibilities of all key personnel (e.g., pd(s)/pi(s), program coordinator) should be clearly defined in the application.applications may request up to ten postbaccalaureate positions for each year of the grant for individuals to engage in mentored research experiences and courses for skills development. remuneration for prep participants is through salary and wages. the total compensation package for participants can include fringe benefits, and tuition remission and fees (if applicable and necessary for the program). prep participants will be required to work as research postbaccalaureates devoting a minimum of 9 person-months (75% of full-time professional effort), and the remaining 3 person-months (25% effort) will be for further academic development. in order for the participant to receive this compensation, the following conditions must be met:• the prep participant must be performing necessary work relevant to the proposed research experience.• there must be an employee-employer relationship between the participant and the university.• the total compensation must be reasonable for the work performed.• it is the institution's practice to provide commensurate compensation for all individuals in similar circumstances, regardless of the source of support for the activity.travel: applicants may request support for travel of prep participants to attend or present scientific papers at domestic scientific conferences. requests for travel support must be carefully justified in the application.consultant costs, equipment, supplies, travel for key persons, and other program-related expenses may be included in the proposed budget. these expenses must be justified as specifically required by the proposed program and must not duplicate items generally available at the applicant institution.limited program evaluation costs are allowed up to a maximum of $3,000 for the 5 year project period. this includes salaries for evaluation consultants, if any.a single consolidated budget for prep is required, with each item clearly justified. the following items are unallowable costs for the prep:indirect costs (also known as facilities & administrative [f&a] costs) are reimbursed at 8% of modified total direct costs (exclusive of tuition and fees, expenditures for equipment and consortium costs in excess of $25,000), rather than on the basis of a negotiated rate agreement.nih grants policies as described in the nih grants policy statement will apply to the applications submitted and awards made from this foa.1. eligible applicantshigher education institutionsthe following types of higher education institutions are always encouraged to apply for nih support as public or private institutions of higher education:nonprofits other than institutions of higher educationfor research education and training programs to enhance diversity, nigms recognizes separate institutional eligibility tracks: research-intensive, i.e., those with nih research project grant (rpg) funding averaging greater than or equal to $7.5 million in total costs (direct and f&a/indirect) per year over the last three fiscal years; and research-active, i.e., those with nih research project grant (rpg) funding averaging less than $7.5 million in total costs per year over the last three fiscal years (rpg data are available through nih report). for example, fy 2020, fy 2021 and fy 2022 for applications submitted in january 2023.institutional eligibility for this foa is limited to research-intensive institutions (as defined above) that have strong biomedical ph.d. degree programs in nigms mission areas. that is, institutions that are eligible for marc or imsd are eligible to apply, but those that are eligible for u-rise or g-rise are not eligible for this program. further, nigms encourages applications from highly research-intensive institutions (i.e., those with an average of nih funding greater than or equal to $20 million total costs per year over the last three fiscal years) that have a significant number of faculty mentors with active and extramurally funded research programs (e.g., r01, r35, or equivalent awards) and robust research education environments.an institution (normally identified by having a unique entity identifier) can have no more than one prep award.the sponsoring institution must assure support for the proposed program through an “institutional support letter” within the “letters of support” attachment. appropriate institutional commitment to the program includes the provision of adequate staff, facilities, and educational resources that can contribute to the planned program. additionally, a signed letter is required from the authorized organization representative/business official or similar official with institution-wide responsibility verifying the eligibility of the applicant institution at the time of application submission according to the eligibility criteria indicated above. see the application instructions for the required “letters of support” attachment in section iv.2institutions with existing ruth l. kirschstein national research service award (nrsa) institutional training grants (e.g., t32) or other federally funded training programs may apply for a research education grant provided that the proposed educational experiences are distinct from those training programs receiving federal support. in many cases, it is anticipated that the proposed research education program will complement ongoing research training occurring at the applicant institution.non-domestic (non-u.s.) entities (foreign institutions) are not eligible to applynon-domestic (non-u.s.) components of u.s. organizations are not eligible to apply.foreign components, as defined in the nih grants policy statement, are not allowed.applicant organizationsapplicant organizations must complete and maintain the following registrations as described in the sf 424 (r&r) application guide to be eligible to apply for or receive an award. all registrations must be completed prior to the application being submitted. registration can take 6 weeks or more, so applicants should begin the registration process as soon as possible. the nih policy on late submission of grant applications states that failure to complete registrations in advance of a due date is not a valid reason for a late submission.program directors/principal investigators (pd(s)/pi(s))all pd(s)/pi(s) must have an era commons account. pd(s)/pi(s) should work with their organizational officials to either create a new account or to affiliate their existing account with the applicant organization in era commons. if the pd/pi is also the organizational signing official, they must have two distinct era commons accounts, one for each role. obtaining an era commons account can take up to 2 weeks.any individual(s) with the skills, knowledge, and resources necessary to carry out the proposed research as the program director(s)/principal investigator(s) (pd(s)/pi(s)) is invited to work with his/her organization to develop an application for support. individuals from diverse backgrounds, including underrepresented racial and ethnic groups, individuals with disabilities, and women are always encouraged to apply for nih support. see, reminder: notice of nih's encouragement of applications supporting individuals from underrepresented ethnic and racial groups as well as individuals with disabilities, not-od-22-019.for institutions/organizations proposing multiple pds/pis, visit the multiple program director/principal investigator policy and submission details in the senior/key person profile (expanded) component of the sf424 (r&r) application guide.as described in the instructions for the program director(s)/principal investigator(s) (pd(s)/pi(s)) in section iv.2 below, nigms encourages multiple pd(s)/pi(s), particularly when each brings a unique perspective and skill set that will enhance the research education program. the pd(s)/pi(s) must be able to provide both administrative and scientific leadership to the development and implementation of the proposed program. at least one of the pd(s)/pi(s) should be an investigator with an active research program in the biomedical sciences (e.g., as demonstrated by recent publications and current research support). additional pd(s)/pi(s), including individuals with experience in the science of education, relevant social science disciplines, program evaluation, mentoring, diversity, equity, inclusion and accessibility (deia) work, or university administration may be included to achieve the program goals. any of the pd(s)/pi(s) may serve as the contact pd/pi. the contact pd/pi is expected to have a full-time appointment at the applicant institution unless extremely well-justified. if the full-time status of the contact pd/pi changes after the award, the institution must obtain prior program approval to appoint a new pd/pi or request a deviation from the full-time rule. the pd(s)/pi(s) will be responsible for the selection and appointment of participants to the approved research education program, and for the overall direction, management, administration, and evaluation of the program. the pd(s)/pi(s) will be expected to monitor and assess the program and submit all documents and reports as required. the pd(s)/pi(s) have responsibility for the day-to-day administration of the program and are responsible for appointing members of the advisory committee (when applicable) and using their recommendations to determine the appropriate allotment of funds.2. cost sharingthis foa does not require cost sharing as defined in the nih grants policy statement.3. additional information on eligibilitynumber of applicationsonly one application per institution (normally identified by having a unique entity identifer or nih ipf number) is allowed.the nih will not accept duplicate or highly overlapping applications under review at the same time per 2.3.7.4 submission of resubmission application. this means that the nih will not accept:program facultythe selected faculty should be trained researchers in the biomedical sciences as demonstrated by recent publications and research support. when building a team of mentors, programs should include faculty who are committed to training, mentoring, fostering diversity, and providing supportive and inclusive research environments. programs are encouraged to build a diverse team of preceptors/mentors that includes, for example, faculty from underrepresented groups (notice of nih's interest in diversity), women, and faculty at different career stages (i.e., early stage as well as senior faculty). faculty should come from a wide variety of disciplines relevant to the nigms mission. mentors must be committed to continue their involvement throughout the total period of the mentee's participation in this award.participantsthe applicant institution will select the prep participants who will receive salary support. it is the responsibility of the institution to establish the qualifications of the participants before they are supported by the program.in order to receive salary support, the participant must be a citizen or a noncitizen national of the united states or have been lawfully admitted for permanent residence at the time of appointment. additionally, participants must have a baccalaureate degree that prepares them to pursue a research-focused biomedical doctoral degree from an accredited college or university awarded no more than 36 months prior to applying to a prep, and must not be currently enrolled in a degree program. parental, medical, or other well-justified leave for personal or family situations is not included in the 3-year eligibility limit, nor is national service (e.g., peace corps, or service in the national guard or armed forces reserves). all individuals selected as participants should intend to apply to research-focused biomedical doctoral degree programs (e.g., ph.d. or m.d./ph.d.) during or immediately following completion of the research education program.the overarching goal of this program is to develop a diverse pool of well-trained postbaccalaureate participants who will transition into and complete rigorous, research-focused biomedical doctoral degree programs. fostering diversity by addressing underrepresentation in the scientific research workforce is a key component of the nih strategy to identify, develop, support and maintain the quality of our scientific human capital. in spite of tremendous advancements in scientific research, information, educational and research opportunities are not equally available to all. nih encourages institutions to diversify their student, postdoctorate and faculty populations to enhance the participation of individuals from groups identified as underrepresented in the biomedical sciences (e.g., see the notice of nih's of interest in diversity). for the purpose of this announcement, institutions are strongly encouraged to identify candidates who will enhance diversity on a national basis. in addition, it is recognized that underrepresentation can vary from setting to setting; individuals from racial or ethnic groups that can be demonstrated convincingly to be underrepresented by the grantee institution should be encouraged to participate in this program.1. requesting an application packagethe application forms package specific to this opportunity must be accessed through assist, grants.gov workspace or an institutional system-to-system solution. links to apply using assist or grants.gov workspace are available in part 1 of this foa. see your administrative office for instructions if you plan to use an institutional system-to-system solution.2. content and form of application submissionit is critical that applicants follow the instructions in the research (r) instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, except where instructed in this funding opportunity announcement to do otherwise. conformance to the requirements in the application guide is required and strictly enforced. applications that are out of compliance with these instructions will not be reviewed.note: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023 a data management and sharing plan is not applicable for this foa.the following section supplements the instructions found in the sf424 (r&r) application guide and should be used for preparing an application to this foa.follow all instructions provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.follow all instructions provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.follow all instructions provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide with the following additional modifications:facilities & other resources. describe the educational environment, including the facilities, laboratories, participating departments, computer services, and any other resources to be used in the development and implementation of the proposed program. list all thematically related sources of support for research training and education following the format for current and pending support.provide a brief description of the mission of the institution and its academic components. the application should describe how the level of institutional (and as appropriate, departmental) commitment to excellence in research education will promote success of the participants and program. a letter providing assurances of the institutional commitment must be included in the letters of support section of the application. detailed instructions on the types of support are found below in the letters of support section of the foa.other attachments.advisory committee plan (1 page maximum): an advisory committee is not a required component of a research education program. however, if an advisory committee is intended, provide a plan for the appointment of an advisory committee to monitor progress of the research education program. the composition, roles, responsibilities, and desired expertise of committee members, frequency of committee meetings, and other relevant information should be included. describe how the advisory committee will evaluate the overall effectiveness of the program. proposed advisory committee members should be named in the application only if they have been invited to participate at the time the application is submitted. renewal applications with advisory committees should include the names of all committee members during the past project period. please name your file “advisory_committee.pdf”.program faculty biosketches: biosketches of program faculty must be included. the personal statement should describe a commitment to scientific rigor, training, mentoring, as well as promoting diverse, inclusive, safe, and supportive scientific environments. please upload all of the biosketches as a single pdf and name your file “program faculty biosketches.pdf”.applications lacking a "program faculty biosketches" attachment will be considered incomplete and will not be reviewed.outcomes data collection and storage plan (2-page maximum): funded programs are expected to track participants for a minimum of 15 years beyond participation in the program. the applicant must provide a plan to track the outcomes for all supported participants. programs are encouraged to make the aggregate outcome data available on the institution's website. if the applicant intends to make the data available, describe how the aggregate data will be deidentified before public posting. the applicant must include a strategy to ensure the secure storage and preservation of program data and outcomes. describe how the data will be centralized, safeguarded, and retrievable during leadership changes. please name the file “data_collection_storage_plan.pdf”.applications lacking an "outcomes data collection and storage plan" attachment will be considered incomplete and will not be reviewed.training data table 4, research support of participating faculty members, is a required attachment. please follow the instructions for the data tables [all training tables (undergraduate programs)]. please name your file "table 4 research support.pdf".applications lacking the "training data table 4"attachment will be considered incomplete and will not be reviewed.training data table 8d,part i, program outcomes: undergrad:no other data tables are permitted in the "other attachments" section of the application. inclusion of additional training data tables will result in application withdrawal before peer review.the filename provided for each “other attachment” will be the name used for the bookmark in the electronic application in era commons.follow all instructions provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.biographical sketch: the personal statement should describe a commitment to diversity, scientific rigor, training, mentoring, as well as to promoting inclusive, safe, and supportive scientific environments.follow all instructions provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide with the following additional modifications:follow all instructions provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed, with the following additional instructions:research strategyresearch strategy section must be used to upload the research education program plan, which must include the following components described below:research education program planproposed research education program. while the proposed research education program may complement ongoing research training and education occurring at the applicant institution, the proposed educational experiences must be distinct from those research training and research education programs currently receiving federal support. when research training programs are on-going in the same department, the applicant organization should clearly distinguish between the activities in the proposed research education program and the research training supported by the training program.the plan should describe an integrated set of activities that will develop a diverse pool of well-trained postbaccalaureate scientists who have the technical, operational and professional skills required to conduct research in an ethically responsible and rigorous manner, and to transition into and succeed in rigorous biomedical doctoral degree programs as described in the program objective. it is anticipated that several departments representing multiple biomedical disciplines relevant to the nigms mission will be involved in the institutional prep. hence, the proposed research education program section of the prep application should be organized to reflect the institutional scope of the proposed program. applicants are encouraged to summarize what they view as especially important results contained in the data tables within the research education program plan of the application. this summary does not replace the data tables, and applicants are urged to ensure consistency between the summary and the relevant table information.include the following items in this section:current status of the graduate biomedical science academic programs: describe the size of the graduate student body (ph.d. level) in biomedically relevant disciplines. provide institutional data on ph.d. student enrollment from the last five years and indicate the percentage of students from underrepresented groups. provide the number of ph.d. students (overall and underrepresented groups) from the participating departments or programs, and their graduation rates for the last 5 years. present this data in table format within the text (not in the appendix or with the required data tables).program rationale, mission, objectives, and overall research education plan: applications must include the rationale for the proposed prep program as well as the feasibility of success in the context of the institutional setting. describe and summarize institutional and externally sponsored programs to enhance diversity in the biomedical sciences at the participating institution within the last 5 years. specifically, the application should describe the following:career development: the application should describe how the program participants will:program oversight, participating faculty selection, and mentor training: the application should include the planned strategy and administrative structure to oversee and monitor the program and to ensure appropriate participant progress. the application should describe how the participating faculty are trained to ensure the use of evidence-informed approaches to teaching, training, and mentoring practices that promote the development of participants from all backgrounds, including participants from underrepresented groups in the biomedical sciences (e.g., notice of nih's interest in diversity). the application should describe the following:if a program coordinator or administrator position is planned to enhance oversight, a description of the person's administrative capabilities that are essential to coordinate the program must be included in the application.progress report: for renewal applications, include a detailed progress report. state the original specific measurable objectives, anticipated milestones, and outcomes. provide a summary of the accomplishments of the prep during the previous project period, with reference to participant research and/or other prep-supported development activities, e.g., workshops, scientific meetings, or lectures. summarize program outcomes (e.g., number of participants who matriculated into and completed prep, percentage of participants who complete in one year, number who matriculated into a biomedical research-oriented doctoral degree program and the number of these students who progress in good standing in their degree programs). applications must provide prep postbaccalaureate participant outcomes for all previous funding cycles up to 15 years by submitting training table 8d as an other attachment on the sf424 (r&r) other project information form. describe what has been learned through program assessment and any changes made in the program because of the assessment. indicate the institutional impact of the program (e.g., on the curriculum, training environment, or institutional practices). describe any dissemination of findings or materials developed under the auspices of the program to the broader training community.program director/principal investigator: the application should describe how the research education program pd(s)/pi(s) will promote the success of the participants and research education program. nigms encourages multiple pd(s)/pi(s) (mpi), particularly when each brings a unique perspective and skill set that will enhance the research education program as described in the eligible individuals section above. the application should expand on the information in the biosketch(es) to address how the pd/pi or pd/pi team has:the application must also describe the administrative structure and leadership succession plan for critical positions (e.g., pd(s)/pi(s)).program faculty: the application should describe how the participating faculty will promote the success of the participants and research education program. describe how the program has or will build a diverse team of participating faculty (e.g., individuals from underrepresented backgrounds, women, and faculty at different career stages) to help participants gain access to potential role models within the research education program and to enhance the excellence of the research environment. summarize and expand on the material presented in the training data table 4 and biosketches. the application should address how the participating faculty:program participants: applications must describe the intended participants, and the eligibility criteria and/or specific educational background characteristics that are essential for participation in the proposed research education program. provide the criteria and strategy for prep participant selection. program candidates should have the potential to strongly benefit from, and with proper support, succeed in the program and transition into rigorous research-oriented biomedical doctoral degree programs. applications should explain why participants will strongly benefit from being in the prep program rather than going directly to doctoral-degree granting programs. strategies for ensuring that participants have sufficient commitment to careers in biomedical research should be described.recruitment plan to enhance diversity: applicants are required to provide a recruitment plan to enhance diversity. the application should include outreach strategies and activities designed to recruit potential research education program participants who are from diverse backgrounds, e.g., recent baccalaureate graduates from underrepresented racial and ethnic groups, students from disadvantaged backgrounds, and individuals with disabilities (see notice of nih's interest in diversity). applicants are encouraged to consult the nigms webpage for strategies to enhance diversity in training programs when designing their plans. describe the specific efforts to be undertaken by the training program and how these might coordinate with recruitment efforts of the institution. centralized institutional efforts alone will not satisfy the requirement to recruit individuals from underrepresented groups. participating faculty are expected to be actively involved in recruitment efforts.new applications must include a description of plans to enhance recruitment, including the strategies that will be used to enhance the recruitment of participants from underrepresented backgrounds and may wish to include data in support of past accomplishments. renewal applications must include a detailed account of experiences in recruiting individuals from underrepresented groups during the previous funding period, including successful and unsuccessful recruitment strategies. information should be included on how the proposed plan reflects the program’s past experiences in recruiting individuals from underrepresented groups.applications lacking a recruitment plan to enhance diversity will be considered incomplete and will not be reviewedplan for instruction in methods for enhancing reproducibility: applicants are required to provide a plan for instruction in methods for enhancing reproducibility. the plan must describe how participants will be instructed in principles important for enhancing research reproducibility including, at a minimum, critical evaluation of foundational research underlying a project, rigorous experimental design and data interpretation, consideration of relevant biological variables such as sex, authentication of key biological and/or chemical resources, data and material sharing, record keeping, and transparency in reporting. applicants are encouraged to consult the nigms clearinghouse for training modules to enhance data reproducibility and other resources when developing the plans.describe how instruction strategies are well integrated into the overall curriculum, that is, how they are taught at multiple stages of participant development and in a variety of formats and contexts. describe how all participating faculty will reiterate and augment key elements of methods for enhancing scientific rigor and reproducibility when program participants are performing research in their laboratories.applications lacking a plan for instruction in methods for enhancing reproducibility will be considered incomplete and will not be reviewed.plan for instruction in the responsible conduct of research: all applications must include a plan to fulfill nih requirements for instruction in the responsible conduct of research (rcr). the plan must address the five, required instructional components outlined in the nih policy (not-od-10-19 and not-od-22-055):applications lacking a plan for instruction in responsible conduct of research will be considered incomplete and will not be reviewed.evaluation plan: nigms funded research education programs must conduct ongoing evaluations to monitor the success of the programmatic and mentoring activities. the application should:applications lacking an evaluation plan will be considered incomplete and will not be reviewed.dissemination plan: a specific plan must be provided to disseminate nationally any findings resulting from or materials developed under the auspices of the research education program, e.g., sharing course curricula and related materials via web postings, presentations at scientific meetings, workshops.applications lacking a dissemination plan will be considered incomplete and will not be reviewed.letters of supportthe application must include the following two letters of support.1. institutional support letter (10-page maximum): the application must include a signed letter on institutional letterhead from a president, provost, dean, or similar key institutional leader that describes the activities and resources provided by the institution that will ensure the success of the planned research education program and its participants. as applicable, the letter should address how the institution:applications lacking the institutional support letter will be considered incomplete and will not be reviewed.2. institutional eligibility letter. (1-page maximum): the authorized organization representative/business official or similar official with institution-wide responsibility must certify that all the components of the institution under the applicant unique entity identifier together have received support from the nih greater than or equal to an average of $7.5 million per year (in both direct and f&a/indirect costs) in the past 3 fiscal years, as described in section iii, "eligible organizations".applications lacking the institutional eligibility letter will be considered incomplete and will not be reviewed.other letters of support. additional letters of support (such as those from partner institutions or organizations) are permitted; however, these letters may not contain any information required in the institutional support letter.resource sharing plansindividuals are required to comply with the instructions for the resource sharing plans as provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.generally, resource sharing plans are not applicable to this program.when relevant, applications are expected to include a software dissemination plan if support for development, maintenance, or enhancement of software is requested in the application.there is no prescribed single license for software produced. however, the software dissemination plan should address, as appropriate, the following goals:appendixonly limited appendix materials are allowed. follow the instructions for the appendix as described in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.the appendix is meant to provide additional details to the following topics, but not meant to substitute for clear descriptions in the body of the application. do not include items other than the allowable materials described below, as doing so will result in administrative withdrawal of the application. a summary sheet listing all the items included in the appendix may be included in the first page of the appendix attachment.the following are required appendix materials:the following are allowable appendix materials:phs human subjects and clinical trials informationgenerally, human subjects are not applicable to this program.when involving human subjects research, clinical research, and/or nih-defined clinical trials (and when applicable, clinical trials research experience) follow all instructions for the phs human subjects and clinical trials information form in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, with the following additional instructions:if you answered “yes” to the question “are human subjects involved?” on the r&r other project information form, you must include at least one human subjects study record using the study record: phs human subjects and clinical trials information form or delayed onset study record.study record: phs human subjects and clinical trials informationall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.delayed onset studynote: delayed onset does not apply to a study that can be described but will not start immediately (i.e., delayed start). all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.3. unique entity identifier and system for award management (sam)see part 1. section iii.1 for information regarding the requirement for obtaining a unique entity identifier and for completing and maintaining active registrations in system for award management (sam), nato commercial and government entity (ncage) code (if applicable), era commons, and grants.gov4. submission dates and timespart i. overview information contains information about key dates and times. applicants are encouraged to submit applications before the due date to ensure they have time to make any application corrections that might be necessary for successful submission. when a submission date falls on a weekend or federal holiday, the application deadline is automatically extended to the next business day.organizations must submit applications to grants.gov (the online portal to find and apply for grants across all federal agencies). applicants must then complete the submission process by tracking the status of the application in the era commons, nih’s electronic system for grants administration. nih and grants.gov systems check the application against many of the application instructions upon submission. errors must be corrected and a changed/corrected application must be submitted to grants.gov on or before the application due date and time. if a changed/corrected application is submitted after the deadline, the application will be considered late. applications that miss the due date and time are subjected to the nih policy on late application submission.applicants are responsible for viewing their application before the due date in the era commons to ensure accurate and successful submission.information on the submission process and a definition of on-time submission are provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.5. intergovernmental review (e.o. 12372)this initiative is not subject to intergovernmental review.6. funding restrictionsall nih awards are subject to the terms and conditions, cost principles, and other considerations described in the nih grants policy statement.pre-award costs are allowable only as described in the nih grants policy statement.7. other submission requirements and informationapplications must be submitted electronically following the instructions described in the sf424 (r&r) application guide. paper applications will not be accepted.applicants must complete all required registrations before the application due date. section iii. eligibility information contains information about registration.for assistance with your electronic application or for more information on the electronic submission process, visit how to apply – application guide. if you encounter a system issue beyond your control that threatens your ability to complete the submission process on-time, you must follow the dealing with system issues guidance. for assistance with application submission, contact the application submission contacts in section vii.important reminders:all pd(s)/pi(s) must include their era commons id in the credential field of the senior/key person profile form. failure to register in the commons and to include a valid pd/pi commons id in the credential field will prevent the successful submission of an electronic application to nih.the applicant organization must ensure that the unique entity identifier provided on the application is the same identifier used in the organization’s profile in the era commons and for the system for award management. additional information may be found in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.see more tips for avoiding common errors.upon receipt, applications will be evaluated for completeness and compliance with application instructions by the nih center for scientific review and nigms. applications that are incomplete or non-compliant will not be reviewed.for the purpose of this foa, follow the post-submission instructions for institutional training and training-related (e.g. t32 and t34) grants.1. criteriaonly the review criteria described below will be considered in the review process. applications submitted to the nih in support of the nih mission are evaluated for scientific and technical merit through the nih peer review system.for this particular announcement, note the following:the goal of this r25 program is to support educational activities that prepare postbaccalaureates from diverse backgrounds to transition into and complete rigorous, research-focused biomedical doctoral degree programs (e.g., ph.d. or m.d./ph.d.).reviewers will provide an overall impact score to reflect their assessment of the likelihood for the project to strongly advance research education by fulfilling the goal of this r25 education program, in consideration of the following review criteria and additional review criteria, as applicable for the project proposed.reviewers will consider each of the review criteria below in the determination of scientific merit and give a separate score for each. an application does not need to be strong in all categories to be judged likely to have major scientific impact.significancedoes the proposed program address a key audience and an important aspect or important need in research education? is there convincing evidence in the application that the proposed program will significantly advance the stated goal of the program?specific to this foa: is there convincing evidence that the proposed research education program will provide participants from diverse backgrounds with the experiences and skills that will allow them to transition into and complete rigorous, research-focused biomedical doctoral degree programs?investigator(s)is the pd/pi capable of providing both administrative and scientific leadership to the development and implementation of the proposed program? is there evidence that an appropriate level of effort will be devoted by the program leadership to ensure the program's intended goal is accomplished? if applicable, is there evidence that the participating faculty have experience in mentoring students and teaching science? if applicable, are the faculty good role models for the participants by nature of their scientific accomplishments? if the project is collaborative or multi-pd/pi, do the investigators have complementary and integrated expertise; are their leadership approach, governance, and organizational structure appropriate for the project?specific to this foa:do the pd(s)/pi(s) have a demonstrated commitment to training the next generation of the biomedical research workforce, leading recruitment efforts to enhance diversity, and fostering inclusive research environments?does at least one member of the pd/pi team have a demonstrated record of using rigorous and transparent methods in experimental design, data collection, analysis, and reporting in a biomedical field?have the pd(s)/pi(s) received training on how to effectively mentor participants, including those from underrepresented groups, and promote inclusive, safe, and supportive research training environments?do participating faculty come from a broad range of biomedical disciplines relevant to the nigms mission to provide a breadth of potential research experiences to participants?do the participating faculty have a record of conducting ethically sound and responsible scientific research, and of rigorous and unbiased experimental design, methodology, analysis, interpretation, and reporting of results?do the selected participating faculty come from diverse backgrounds (e.g., for individuals from groups underrepresented in the biomedical sciences, women, as well as faculty at different career stages)? if not, are there plans to recruit faculty to enhance the program faculty diversity?do the participating faculty have the time to commit sufficient effort to ensure the participants' development and success, given their other professional obligations?innovationtaking into consideration the nature of the proposed research education program, does the applicant make a strong case for this program effectively reaching an audience in need of the program’s offerings? where appropriate, is the proposed program developing or utilizing innovative approaches and latest best practices to improve the knowledge and/or skills of the intended audience?approachdoes the proposed program clearly state its goals and objectives, including the educational level of the audience to be reached, the content to be conveyed, and the intended outcome? is there evidence that the program is based on a sound rationale, as well as sound educational concepts and principles? is the plan for evaluation sound and likely to provide information on the effectiveness of the program? if the proposed program will recruit participants, are the planned recruitment, retention, and follow-up (if applicable) activities adequate to ensure a highly qualified participant pool?specific to this foa:will the research experiences, courses for skills development, and structured activities achieve the stated mission and objectives of the research education program?are the rationale and strategies for recruiting and selecting participants who strongly benefit from being in the prep program rather than going directly to research-focused biomedical doctoral degree programs well conceived?does the program provide research experiences in a broad range of biomedical disciplines relevant to the nigms mission?does the program employ modern, evidence-informed approaches to training, mentorship, inclusion, and professional development?are the activities likely to build a strong cohort of research-oriented individuals while enhancing the science identity, self-efficacy, and a sense of belonging among the cohort members?does the application describe an effective strategy and administrative structure to oversee and monitor the program to ensure appropriate and timely progress for the participants?is there a clear mechanism for matching the participants with appropriate participating faculty, and for monitoring mentoring, including oversight of the effectiveness of the participant/faculty match?is there a plan for removing participating faculty displaying unacceptable mentorship qualities from the training program?if a program coordinator or administrator position is planned, is there a description of the person's administrative capabilities that are essential to coordinate the program?environmentwill the scientific and educational environment of the proposed program contribute to its intended goals? is there a plan to take advantage of this environment to enhance the educational value of the program? is there tangible evidence of institutional commitment? is there evidence that the faculty have sufficient institutional support to create a sound educational environment for the participants? where appropriate, is there evidence of collaboration and buy-in among participating programs, departments, and institutions?specific to this foa:is there clear institutional commitment to develop and promote a culture in which the highest standards of safety, scientific rigor, reproducibility, and responsible conduct of research are advanced?are the core facilities and technology resources necessary for the success of the program well supported?is there evidence that the research facilities and laboratory practices ensure the safety of program participants (and trainees generally)?is there evidence that the institution fosters and rewards excellence in training and mentoring (for example, through institutional policies)?are diversity and inclusion promoted at all levels of the research environment (participants/trainees, staff, faculty, and leadership)?are appropriate policies and procedures in place to protect the participants from harassment and other prohibited practices?are the research facilities accessible to participants/trainees with disabilities?as applicable for the project proposed, reviewers will evaluate the following additional items while determining scientific and technical merit, and in providing an overall impact score, but will not give separate scores for these items.training in methods for enhancing reproducibilitydoes the instruction in methods for enhancing reproducibility plan describe how participants will be instructed in principles important for enhancing research reproducibility including, at a minimum, evaluation of the rigor of the prior research that serves as the key support for a proposed project, rigorous experimental design, consideration of relevant biological variables such as sex, authentication of key biological and/or chemical resources, data and material sharing, record keeping, and transparency in reporting? are the rigor and transparency components sufficiently well integrated into the overall research education program? are they taught at multiple stages of participant development and in a variety of formats and contexts? does the teaching synergize with elements of the curriculum designed to enhance participants' abilities to conduct responsible research? is there evidence that all program faculty reiterate and augment key elements of methods for enhancing reproducibility when participants are performing mentored research their laboratories? the plan will be rated as acceptable or unacceptable, and the summary statement will provide the consensus of the review committee.recruitment plan to enhance diversityreviewers will examine the strategies to be used in the recruitment of prospective participants from underrepresented groups. the plan will be rated as acceptable or unacceptable, and the summary statement will provide the consensus of the review committee.training in the responsible conduct of researchtaking into account the specific characteristics of the proposed research education program, the level of participant experience, the reviewers will evaluate the adequacy of the proposed rcr training in relation to the following five required components: 1) format - the required format of instruction, i.e., face-to-face lectures, coursework, and/or real-time discussion groups (a plan with only on-line instruction is not acceptable); 2) subject matter - the breadth of subject matter, e.g., conflict of interest, authorship, data management, human subjects and animal use, laboratory safety, research misconduct, research ethics, societal impacts of scientific research; 3) faculty participation - the role of the program faculty in the instruction; 4) duration of instruction - the number of contact hours of instruction, taking into consideration the duration of the program; and 5) frequency of instruction –instruction must occur during each career stage and at least once every four years. see also: not-od-10-019 and not-od-22-055. plans will be rated as acceptable or unacceptable, and the summary statement will provide the consensus of the review committee.protections for human subjectsgenerally not applicable. reviewers should bring any concerns to the attention of the scientific review officer.inclusion of women, minorities, and individuals across the lifespangenerally not applicable. reviewers should bring any concerns to the attention of the scientific review officer.vertebrate animalsgenerally not applicable. reviewers should bring any concerns to the attention of the scientific review officer.biohazardsgenerally not applicable. reviewers should bring any concerns to the attention of the scientific review officer.resubmissionsnot applicablerevisionsnot applicablerenewalsfor renewals, the committee will consider the progress made in the last funding period, and the success of the program in recruiting individuals from diverse populations, including populations underrepresented in biomedical, behavioral and clinical research on a national basis, consistent with the prep program objective. did most participants transition into rigorous, research-focused biomedical doctoral degree programs? is the program having a broader impact (e.g., on the curriculum, training environment, or institutional practices; are training practices and outcomes being shared with the broader biomedical training community)?note: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023, the data sharing plan and genomic data sharing plan (gds) as part of the resource sharing plan will not be evaluated at time of review, and a data management and sharing plan is not applicable for this foa.as applicable for the project proposed, reviewers will consider each of the following items, but will not give scores for these items, and should not consider them in providing an overall impact score.applications from foreign organizationsnot applicableselect agent researchgenerally not applicable. reviewers should bring any concerns to the attention of the scientific review officer.resource sharing plansgenerally not applicable. reviewers should bring any concerns to the attention of the scientific review officer.if support for development, maintenance, or enhancement of software is requested in the application, the reviewers will comment on the proposed software dissemination plan.budget and period of supportreviewers will consider whether the budget and the requested period of support are fully justified and reasonable in relation to the proposed research.2. review and selection processapplications will be evaluated for scientific and technical merit by (an) appropriate scientific review group(s) convened by the nigms office of scientific review, in accordance with nih peer review policy and procedures, using the stated review criteria. assignment to a scientific review group will be shown in the era commons.as part of the scientific peer review, all applications will receive a written critique.applications may undergo a selection process in which only those applications deemed to have the highest scientific and technical merit (generally the top half of applications under review) will be discussed and assigned an overall impact score.applications will be assigned on the basis of established phs referral guidelines to the appropriate nih institute or center. applications will compete for available funds with all other recommended applications submitted in response to this foa. following initial peer review, recommended applications will receive a second level of review by the appropriate national advisory council or board. the following will be considered in making funding decisions:3. anticipated announcement and award datesafter the peer review of the application is completed, the pd/pi will be able to access his or her summary statement (written critique) via the era commons. refer to part 1 for dates for peer review, advisory council review, and earliest start date.information regarding the disposition of applications is available in the nih grants policy statement.1. award noticesif the application is under consideration for funding, nih will request "just-in-time" information from the applicant as described in the nih grants policy statement.a formal notification in the form of a notice of award (noa) will be provided to the applicant organization for successful applications. the noa signed by the grants management officer is the authorizing document and will be sent via email to the recipient’s business official.recipients must comply with any funding restrictions described in section iv.6. funding restrictions. selection of an application for award is not an authorization to begin performance. any costs incurred before receipt of the noa are at the recipient's risk. these costs may be reimbursed only to the extent considered allowable pre-award costs.any application awarded in response to this foa will be subject to terms and conditions found on the award conditions and information for nih grants website. this includes any recent legislation and policy applicable to awards that is highlighted on this website.institutional review board (irb) or independent ethics committee approval (iec): recipient institutions must ensure that protocols are reviewed by their irb or iec. to help ensure the safety of participants enrolled in nih-funded studies, the recipient must provide nih copies of documents related to all major changes in the status of ongoing protocols.2. administrative and national policy requirementsall nih grant and cooperative agreement awards include the nih grants policy statement as part of the noa. for these terms of award, see the nih grants policy statement part ii: terms and conditions of nih grant awards, subpart a: general and part ii: terms and conditions of nih grant awards, subpart b: terms and conditions for specific types of grants, recipients, and activities, including of note, but not limited to:if a recipient is successful and receives a notice of award, in accepting the award, the recipient agrees that any activities under the award are subject to all provisions currently in effect or implemented during the period of the award, other department regulations and policies in effect at the time of the award, and applicable statutory provisions.should the applicant organization successfully compete for an award, recipients of federal financial assistance (ffa) from hhs must administer their programs in compliance with federal civil rights laws that prohibit discrimination on the basis of race, color, national origin, disability, age and, in some circumstances, religion, conscience, and sex (including gender identity, sexual orientation, and pregnancy). this includes ensuring programs are accessible to persons with limited english proficiency and persons with disabilities. the hhs office for civil rights provides guidance on complying with civil rights laws enforced by hhs. please see https://www.hhs.gov/civil-rights/for-providers/provider-obligations/index.html and https://www.hhs.gov/civil-rights/for-individuals/nondiscrimination/index.html.hhs recognizes that research projects are often limited in scope for many reasons that are nondiscriminatory, such as the principal investigator’s scientific interest, funding limitations, recruitment requirements, and other considerations. thus, criteria in research protocols that target or exclude certain populations are warranted where nondiscriminatory justifications establish that such criteria are appropriate with respect to the health or safety of the subjects, the scientific study design, or the purpose of the research. for additional guidance regarding how the provisions apply to nih grant programs, please contact the scientific/research contact that is identified in section vii under agency contacts of this foa.please contact the hhs office for civil rights for more information about obligations and prohibitions under federal civil rights laws at https://www.hhs.gov/ocr/about-us/contact-us/index.html or call 1-800-368-1019 or tdd 1-800-537-7697.in accordance with the statutory provisions contained in section 872 of the duncan hunter national defense authorization act of fiscal year 2009 (public law 110-417), nih awards will be subject to the federal awardee performance and integrity information system (fapiis) requirements. fapiis requires federal award making officials to review and consider information about an applicant in the designated integrity and performance system (currently fapiis) prior to making an award. an applicant, at its option, may review information in the designated integrity and performance systems accessible through fapiis and comment on any information about itself that a federal agency previously entered and is currently in fapiis. the federal awarding agency will consider any comments by the applicant, in addition to other information in fapiis, in making a judgement about the applicant’s integrity, business ethics, and record of performance under federal awards when completing the review of risk posed by applicants as described in 45 cfr part 75.205 and 2 cfr part 200.206 “federal awarding agency review of risk posed by applicants.” this provision will apply to all nih grants and cooperative agreements except fellowships.3. reportingwhen multiple years are involved, recipients will be required to submit the research performance progress report (rppr) annually. continuation support will not be provided until the required forms are submitted and accepted.programs that involve participants should report on education in the responsible conduct of research and complete a trainee diversity report, in accordance with the rppr instruction guide.nih foas outline intended research goals and objectives. post award, nih will review and measure performance based on the details and outcomes that are shared within the rppr, as described at 45 cfr part 75.301 and 2 cfr 200.301.the federal funding accountability and transparency act of 2006 (transparency act), includes a requirement for awardees of federal grants to report information about first-tier subawards and executive compensation under federal assistance awards issued in fy2011 or later. all recipients of applicable nih grants and cooperative agreements are required to report to the federal subaward reporting system (fsrs) available at www.fsrs.gov on all subawards over the threshold. see the nih grants policy statement for additional information on this reporting requirement.failure by the recipient institution to submit required forms in a timely, complete, and accurate manner may result in an expenditure disallowance or a delay in any continuation funding for the award.in accordance with the regulatory requirements 45 cfr part 75 and 2 cfr part 200 and appendix xii to 45 cfr part 75.113 and 2 cfr part 200.113, recipients that have currently active federal grants, cooperative agreements, and procurement contracts from all federal awarding agencies with a cumulative total value greater than $10,000,000 for any period of time during the period of performance of a federal award, must report and maintain the currency of information reported in the system for award management (sam) about civil, criminal, and administrative proceedings in connection with the award or performance of a federal award that reached final disposition within the most recent five-year period. the recipient must also make semiannual disclosures regarding such proceedings. proceedings information will be made publicly available in the designated integrity and performance system (currently fapiis). this is a statutory requirement under section 872 of public law 110-417, as amended (41 u.s.c. 2313). as required by section 3010 of public law 111-212, all information posted in the designated integrity and performance system on or after april 15, 2011, except past performance reviews required for federal procurement contracts, will be publicly available. full reporting requirements and procedures are found in appendix xii to 45 cfr part 75 and 2 cfr part 200 – award term and condition for recipient integrity and performance matters.other reporting requirementsa final rppr and the expenditure data portion of the federal financial report are required for closeout of an award as described in the nih grants policy statement.4. evaluationin carrying out its stewardship of human resource-related programs, the nih or its institutes and centers will periodically evaluate their r25 research education programs, employing the measures identified below. in assessing the effectiveness of its research education investments, nih may request information from progress reports, public databases, pd/pis, and from participants themselves. where necessary, pd/pis and participants may be contacted after the completion of a research education experience for periodic updates on participants’ subsequent educational or employment history and professional activities.upon the completion of a program evaluation, nih and its ics will determine whether to (a) continue a program as currently configured, (b) continue a program with modifications, or (c) discontinue a program.the overall evaluation of the nigms-wide program will be based on metrics that may include, but are not limited to, the following:we encourage inquiries concerning this funding opportunity and welcome the opportunity to answer questions from potential applicants.era service desk (questions regarding assist, era commons, application errors and warnings, documenting system problems that threaten submission by the due date, and post-submission issues)finding help online: http://http://grants.nih.gov/support/ (preferred method of contact) telephone: 301-402-7469 or 866-504-9552 (toll free)general grants information (questions regarding application instructions, application processes, and nih grant resources) email: grantsinfo@nih.gov (preferred method of contact) telephone: 301-637-3015grants.gov customer support (questions regarding grants.gov registration and workspace) contact center telephone: 800-518-4726 email: support@grants.govsba company registry (questions regarding required registration at the sba company registry and for technical questions or issues) website to email: http://sbir.gov/feedback?type=reglaurie stepanek, ph.d. national institute of general medical sciences (nigms) email: laurie.stepanek@nih.govlameese akacem, ph.d. national institute of general medical sciences (nigms) email: lameese.akacem@nih.govstephanie constant, ph.d. national institute of general medical sciences email: stephanie.constant@nih.govjustin rosenzweig national institute of general medical sciences email: justin.rosenzweig@nih.govrecently issued trans-nih policy notices may affect your application submission. a full list of policy notices published by nih is provided in the nih guide for grants and contracts. all awards are subject to the terms and conditions, cost principles, and other considerations described in the nih grants policy statement.awards are made under the authorization of sections 301 and 405 of the public health service act as amended (42 usc 241 and 284) and under federal regulations 42 cfr part 52 and 45 cfr part 75 and 2 cfr part 200.weekly toc for this announcement nih funding opportunities and noticesnote: for help accessing pdf, rtf, ms word, excel, powerpoint, audio or video files, see help downloading files.