Implementation Research on Noncommunicable Disease Risk Factors among Low- and Middle-Income Country and Tribal Populations Living in City Environments (R01 Clinical Trial Optional)
https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/pa-files/PAR-23-042.html
national institutes of health (nih)fogarty international center (fic) national heart, lung, and blood institute (nhlbi) national institute on aging (nia) national institute on drug abuse (nida) national institute of environmental health sciences (niehs) national institute of mental health (nimh) national institute of neurological disorders and stroke (ninds) national institute on minority health and health disparities (nimhd) national cancer institute (nci) all applications to this funding opportunity announcement should fall within the mission of the institutes/centers. the following nih offices may co-fund applications assigned to those institutes/centers. division of program coordination, planning and strategic initiatives, office of disease prevention (odp)national heart, lung, and blood institute (nhlbi)national institute on aging (nia)national institute on drug abuse (nida)national institute of environmental health sciences (niehs)national institute of mental health (nimh)national institute of neurological disorders and stroke (ninds)national institute on minority health and health disparities (nimhd)national cancer institute (nci)all applications to this funding opportunity announcement should fall within the mission of the institutes/centers. the following nih offices may co-fund applications assigned to those institutes/centers.division of program coordination, planning and strategic initiatives, office of disease prevention (odp)r01 research project grantnot-od-22-195 new nih "forms-h" grant application forms and instructions coming for due dates on or after january 25, 2023not-od-22-189 implementation details for the nih data management and sharing policynot-od-22-198 implementation changes for genomic data sharing plans included with applications due on or after january 25, 2023not-od-23-012 reminder: forms-h grant application forms & instructions must be used for due dates on or after january 25, 2023 - new grant application instructions now availablenot-tw-22-006 notice of intent to publish a funding opportunity announcement for implementation research on non-communicable disease (ncd) risk factors among low- and middle-income country and tribal populations living in city environments.see section iii. 3. additional information on eligibility.the national institutes of health (nih) participating institutes and centers (ics), in collaboration with the global alliance for chronic diseases (gacd), invite applications for implementation research focused on addressing risk factors for common noncommunicable diseases (ncds) in world bank-defined low- and middle-income countries (lmics) and american indian/alaska native (ai/an) populations in the united states (us). air, water, and soil pollution; lack of greenspace; urban heat islands; lack of safe infrastructure for walking, cycling, and active living; lack of access to healthcare facilities, lack of health insurance, and cost of medications; housing condition; and wide availability of tobacco, alcohol, and unhealthy foods and beverages contribute to the ncd epidemic in city environments. in the context of this funding opportunity announcement (foa), "cities" include urban centers, informal settlements, slums, and periurban areas. this foa supports applications that propose implementation research to reduce the risks of ncds in the context of cities in lmics and/or among ai/an populations in us cities, with the potential to equip policymakers and practitioners with evidence-based strategies for prevention and/or management of ncds among disadvantaged populations globally. nih defines implementation research as the scientific study of the use of strategies to adopt and integrate evidence-based health interventions into clinical and community settings to improve individual outcomes and benefit population health.all applications must be within the scope of the mission of one of the institutes/centers listed above (see "components of participating organizations," excluding the fogarty international center which manages this program but does not support awards). applications will be accepted from us and world bank-defined lmic institutions only.30 days before receipt date.all applications are due by 5:00 pm local time of applicant organization.applicants are encouraged to apply early to allow adequate time to make any corrections to errors found in the application during the submission process by the due date.not applicableit is critical that applicants follow the instructions in the research (r) instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, except where instructed to do otherwise (in this foa or in a notice from nih guide for grants and contracts).conformance to all requirements (both in the application guide and the foa) is required and strictly enforced. applicants must read and follow all application instructions in the application guide as well as any program-specific instructions noted in section iv. when the program-specific instructions deviate from those in the application guide, follow the program-specific instructions.applications that do not comply with these instructions may be delayed or not accepted for review.purposethe national institutes of health (nih) participating institutes and centers (ics), in collaboration with the global alliance for chronic diseases (gacd), invite applications for implementation research focused on addressing risk factors for common noncommunicable diseases (ncds) in world bank-defined low- and middle-income countries (lmics) and american indian/alaska native (ai/an) populations in the united states (us). air, water, and soil pollution; lack of greenspace; urban heat islands; lack of safe infrastructure for walking, cycling, and active living; lack of access to healthcare facilities, lack of health insurance, and cost of medications; housing condition; and wide availability of tobacco, alcohol, and unhealthy foods and beverages contribute to the ncd epidemic in city environments. in the context of this funding opportunity announcement (foa), "cities" include urban centers, informal settlements, slums, and periurban areas. this foa supports applications that propose implementation research to reduce the risks of ncds in the context of cities in lmics and/or among ai/an populations in us cities, with the potential to equip policymakers and practitioners with evidence-based strategies for prevention and/or management of ncds among disadvantaged populations globally. nih defines implementation research as the scientific study of the use of strategies to adopt and integrate evidence-based health interventions into clinical and community settings to improve individual outcomes and benefit population health.applications will be accepted from us and lmic institutions only. eligible lmic institutions are defined by the world bank at the following link: datahelpdesk.worldbank.org/knowledgebase/articles/906519-world-bank-country-and-lending-groupsintroductionncds account for 60% of deaths globally where 8 in 10 deaths caused by ncds occur in lmics. while ncds account for the greatest loss of disability-adjusted life years (dalys) around the world, research to study prevention and treatment is relatively under-resourced in lmics and ai/an communities where the burden is increasing. the gacd was formed in 2010 in response to this concern and supports research and associated training to accelerate and improve prevention and treatment of ncds in under-resourced environments.the gacd represents 15 of the world’s largest funding agencies, including the nih, and is the first alliance to specifically address ncds. collectively, gacd partner agencies provide over 80% of global public funding for health research and, since 2010, have supported 110 projects in the areas of hypertension, lung diseases, diabetes, mental health, cancer, stroke, and hypertension/diabetes intervention scale-up. gacd has supported 1,200 researchers at 300 institutions in 70 countries through investment of over us $220 million through its partner agencies. nih has supported 11 gacd awards across these ncd domains.this foa is aligned with the overall gacd initiative to support implementation research, defined as the scientific study of the use of strategies to adopt and integrate evidence-based health interventions into clinical and community settings to improve individual outcomes and benefit population health. implementation research examines which strategies work, for whom, and under what circumstances to promote the uptake, scale-up and spread of effective interventions. projects may also address how interventions can be adapted and scaled up in ways that are feasible, acceptable, accessible, sustainable, and equitable in a given national context.implementation research is especially relevant in lmics, where it can help ensure that limited resources are invested in cost-effective interventions.implementation research is needed to account for the complexities of the systems in which interventions are implemented since other approaches often fail to address these. results of implementation research support evidence-based policymaking that can build robust programs to improve public health. additional information and resources on implementation research can be found on the gacd website.specific challengechronic ncds, such as diabetes, cardiovascular disease, neurological disorders and stroke, respiratory diseases, certain cancers, and mental health disorders are the leading cause of morbidity and mortality in both lmics and high-income countries (hics), especially within ai/an tribal nations. the covid-19 pandemic has brought ncds further into the spotlight, as the majority of those who have experienced severe illness and death have had one or more underlying ncds. reducing the burden of ncds is therefore critical to building more resilient, equitable, and healthier societies.more than half of the world’s population currently live in cities and this number is projected to rise to 68% by 2050. recent climate related disasters, such as major flooding events, fires, and droughts, highlight how cities are at the forefront of the climate change crisis. there is an urgent need to equip local authorities and policymakers with strategies for maximizing the health-promoting potential of cities, while minimizing or reversing environmental degradation and health inequities.fortunately, cities provide tremendous social, cultural, and economic opportunity, and have the potential to become engines of good health and support climate change adaptation. innovative health-focused programs, policies, and infrastructure, such as public smoking bans, bikeable streets, greenspace, and vehicle emission laws, can shape the behaviors of millions of people and decrease exposure to environmental contaminants. city leaders are beginning to demonstrate a commitment to climate action, for example, through their participation in the c40 cities network. applicants to this foa are invited to conduct implementation research that leads to improved understanding of how specific interventions can be better adapted to different city environments and/or scaled within and across cities, taking into account unique local social, political, economic, and cultural contexts.a number of behavioral change interventions, as well as those that increase the health-promoting potential of environments and decrease risks associated with unhealthy environments, are effective in reducing, delaying, or preventing the risk of ncd onset or disease progression. however, research is lacking in how to integrate such interventions into communities and health systems, and/or how to target these interventions within the context of the built environment and cities, especially in lmics and within ai/an populations within us cities. applicants responding to this foa are invited to meet this challenge.research objectives and scopesummarythe aim of this foa is to invite applications for implementation research focused on addressing common ncd risk factors associated with city environments and related health inequities among populations in lmics and ai/an populations in the us.responsive applications will:in addition, applicants are encouraged (though not required) to:nih, through its partnership with gacd, is committed to supporting research undertaken through genuine multi-sectoral partnerships among diverse academics, policymakers, local authorities, for-profit institutions, non-profit organizations, and community groups from hics, lmics, and/or ai/an tribal nations. where possible, research questions should be driven by local stakeholders and other intended beneficiaries of the research project.study population and life course approachthe nih, in partnership with the gacd, aims to improve health equity with selected study populations residing in lmic cities and/or ai/an populations residing in cities in the united states. the context of cities as the study site and focus may include informal settlements near urban centers, peri-urban environments, and city centers. applicants must justify why their study area of focus is considered a city.in all cases, the study population may include both people with existing ncds, those without existing ncds, or a combination of both, but the focus must be on addressing common ncd risk factors, such as depression, diabetes or impaired glucose tolerance, high cholesterol, high blood pressure, obesity, unhealthy diet, smoking, physical inactivity, and excess alcohol consumption. applicants may propose implementation research focused on interventions that are implemented at the individual, family, community (e.g., work or school), population, and/or structural level within the context of cities. applicants may also propose implementation research focused on ncd prevention/management in people living with stable, chronic hiv/aids or other infectious disease comorbidities.evidence-based interventionsthe research to be undertaken will focus on the implementation of one or more evidence-based interventions in preventing or reducing exposure to one or more common ncd risk factors in the context of cities.proposals might focus, for example, on the who best buys and/or other evidence-based strategies and interventions (in the context of cities) that address: tobacco and nicotine avoidance; hypertension management, including reducing salt intake; limiting alcohol consumption, promoting regular physical activity, a healthy diet, and body weight; healthy sleeping patterns; clean air; and/or social and psychological well-being. such strategies and interventions might focus on behavioral change and/or improving equitable access to resources necessary for health promotion.addressing health equitypoverty, racism, ethnic discrimination, stigma, historical trauma, and other inequities are directly associated with detrimental health outcomes. all projects should consider the social determinants of health and discuss their potential impact on the effective implementation of the intervention(s). if there is a focus on a particular population (e.g. gender, race/ethnicity, tribal nation) then the reason for this should be justified.in order to promote health equity, studies can aim to address differences in intervention access, uptake, and effectiveness in socially disadvantaged groups and develop strategies for reducing inequities. to facilitate this process at the data analysis stage, studies can be designed to address such differences (e.g., capturing sex/gender differences, intersectional impacts on health outcomes). guidance for conducting sex/gender-responsive and intersectional research is available on the gacd call webpage.outcome measuresinclusion of contextually appropriate implementation research outcomes (e.g., uptake, acceptance, feasibility, cost, etc.) is a key for driving appropriate assessment and potential scaling beyond the proposed research.where appropriate, outcomes (e.g., health or financial outcomes, uptake metrics, patient satisfaction, and others) should be measured in those targeted directly as well as others who are intended to benefit from the intervention (for example, the infants of mothers who received the intervention while pregnant, or the adult parents or grandparents of children who received the intervention).stakeholder and community engagementfor research evidence to have a strong likelihood of being taken up into policy or practice and informing the scale up of effective interventions, it is vital that project teams engage the appropriate stakeholders, including decision makers such as policymakers, ministry officials, tribal leaders, irbs, and non-governmental organization leaders, who can help sustain the project’s implementation, facilitate scale up, and use the knowledge generated from the project after the grant ends. engaging community partners and community-based organizations as key stakeholders is highly encouraged. stakeholders also include end users and the direct beneficiaries of research, such as youth groups, diverse community members, patients, and their caregivers. all stakeholders should be engaged at all stages of the research project, from initial ideation of research questions, throughout the duration of the project, and afterwards during the knowledge translation and dissemination of findings phase. more information about stakeholder and community engagement, including links to resources for planning such engagement, can be found on the gacd webpage.implementation research capacity buildingimplementation research is a relatively young discipline and the nih and gacd are dedicated to increasing research capacity and capability in this field among researchers, health professionals, and public health leaders through skill building, knowledge sharing, and networking. as such, a key element of this program is to provide opportunities within each funded project to build implementation research capacity especially, but not exclusively, in lower resourced environments, such as lmics or ai/an communities, and amongst early career researchers from these communities.equitable partnership and governanceequity considerations also extend to the governance of project teams in order to ensure fair and equal collaboration, especially between hic/lmic and/or non-tribal nation/tribal nation members (both collaborations within the research teams and with community partners). nih-aligned resources for planning equitable research partnerships are available on the gacd call webpage. as such, the gacd and nih encourage equitable governance arrangements within research teams, with input from stakeholders and community representatives to drive contextually-informed, equitable research and data ownership.compliance with international standards and best practicesit is expected that all research conducted under and funded by this initiative will comply with relevant internationally accepted standards and best practices. these include:expected impacts of this initiativethe projects funded in response to this foa will collectively:nih ic-specific prioritiesparticipating nih institutes, centers, and offices (ics) provided specific statements of interest for this foa below. applicants can obtain more information on research interests for each of the nih participants in this foa at their websites and through their scientific/research contact listed in this announcement. the proposed research must be relevant to the interests of at least one of the participating nih ics (other than fic). applicants should consult with the ic contact listed in this foa to verify interest.fogarty international center (fic)the fogarty international center strategic plan (http://www.fic.nih.gov/about/pages/strategic-plan.aspx) states the following relevant goals: 1) buildresearch capacity through individuals, institutions, and networks to meet future and evolving global health challenges; 2) stimulate innovation in the development and implementation of technologies and other locally relevant solutions to address global health problems; 3) support research and research training in implementation science; 4) advance research on prevention and control of the dual burden of communicable and non-communicable diseases and disabilities; and 5) build and strengthen partnerships to advance global health research and research capacity.national cancer institute (nci)the national cancer institute (nci) leads, conducts, and supports research to improve cancer prevention, detection, diagnosis, treatment, and survivorship. currently, cancer is a leading cause of premature death worldwide. approximately one-third of global cancer deaths are attributable to behavioral risk factors, such as tobacco and alcohol use, low fruit and vegetable intake, obesity, and lack of physical activity. predictions suggest that, by 2030, 30 million people will die from cancer each year, of whom 75% will be in low- and middle-income countries (lmics). a key challenge to reducing the global burden of cancer in lmics, and in other populations experiencing cancer health disparities, is the poor implementation of cancer prevention and control strategies that have been proven to work. nci encourages applications that pursue innovative approaches to adapt, integrate, and scale-up implementation of these interventions, in accessible and affordable ways, to improve the prevention and early diagnosis of cancer in low-resource city environments. investigators are encouraged to contact nci scientific/research staff before submitting applications to discuss the match to nci priorities.national heart, lung, and blood institute (nhlbi)the national heart, lung, and blood institute encourages innovative implementation research that is within scope of nhlbi’s strategic vision, and aligns with in-country national heart, lung, blood, and sleep (hlbs)-related non-communicable disease programs and policies for national population impact.nhlbi is interested in supporting interventions in urban environments to reduce ncd risk: implementation research focused on individual, community, and/or structural level interventions that can reduce ncd risk and/or maximize the health-promoting potential of cities. trans-disciplinary and multi sectoral partnerships among the health, urban planning, and behavioral sciences are encouraged. applications are encouraged that:the r01 clinical trials optional mechanism allows for more traditional funding approaches to mechanistic and non-clinical trials research for hlbs disease prevention and control at regional and/or national levels within lmics and ai/an tribal nations. for clinical trials research, nhlbi will utilize the companion funding opportunity: par-23-043: implementation research on noncommunicable disease risk factors among low- and middle-income country and tribal populations living in city environments (r61/r33 clinical trial required).national institute on aging (nia)the national institute on aging mission is to support and conduct genetic, biological, clinical, behavioral, social, and economic research on aging; foster the development of research and clinician scientists in aging; provide research resources to facilitate innovative aging research; and disseminate information about aging and advances in research to the public, health care professionals, and the scientific community, among a variety of audiences.nia’s interest in this program is to support research to identify and understand barriers to the adoption, integration, scale-up, and sustainability of health interventions related to evidence-based practices to encourage healthy lifestyle behaviors related to life course aging and health, including alzheimer’s disease and alzheimer’s disease related dementias (ad/adrd), in lmics and ai/an tribal nation populations in the united states.the nia health disparities research framework provides insights about nia priority populations, multilevel factors for analysis, and that integrates the life course theory. applicants are strongly encouraged to use the nia health disparities research framework to a) better delineate causal pathways for an intervention, b) broaden the scope of proposed adaptable intervention targets (by reviewing difference cells among the four key domains which provide examples of level of analysis a research team might consider (e.g., individual level, community level, structural level), and c) to potentially identify team members who possess relevant expertise to achieve the intervention’s proposed goals and objectives.for clinical trial proposals, implementation strategies studied should be limited to the studies of strategies that have evidence of efficacy, as well as evidence that the intervention can be delivered in the community with fidelity. nia is especially interested in receiving applications that fall within stage v of the nih stage model for behavioral intervention development that focus on the mechanisms that promote the successful implementation of interventions, consistent with the nih science of behavior change emphasis on mechanisms of change.information about the nih stage model and behavioral intervention development can be found at: https://www.nia.nih.gov/research/dbsr/stage-model-behavioral-intervention-development.information regarding nih’s science of behavior change (sobc) program can be found at: https://commonfund.nih.gov/behaviorchangespecific areas of interest include, but are not limited to:applicants should make the case that these interventions have shown efficacy and can be scaled up.national institute on drug abuse (nida)the national institute on drug abuse is committed to advancing research to address substance use and related disparities among lmic and ai/an tribal nation populations. nida is interested in receiving applications for this foa that address common ncd risk factors for substance use and that meet the criteria established in this foa.national institute of environmental health sciences (niehs)the mission of the national institute of environmental health sciencesis to discover how the environment affects people in order to promote healthier lives. its vision is to provide global leadership for innovative research that improves public health by preventing disease and disability. our environment, including exposures in the physical and built environments, can negatively affect the health of individuals and communities. these environmental exposures disproportionately impact lmics and american indian/alaska native (ai/an) populations in the united states. given the interconnectedness of the environment with social and structural determinants of health, ensuring equitable implementation of interventions that prevent or mitigate these environmental exposures and reduce the risk of ncds is urgently needed.niehs is interested in applications that are within scope of our 2018-2023 strategic plan, that meet the criteria established in this foa, and focus on implementation research in partnership with lmic and ai/an populations that addresses environmental ncd risk factors (e.g., air pollution, disaster risks attributed to climate change, etc.) in one or more city/ies. specific areas of interest to niehs include, but are not limited to:national institute of mental health (nimh)the national institute of mental health encourages studies across the research spectrum, from basic through translational science to intervention development and efficacy, effectiveness, and implementation research. mental disorders may be defined according to existing diagnostic criteria or along dimensions of neurobehavioral functioning according to the nimh research domain criteria (rdoc) framework. if existing diagnostic criteria are to be used, investigators should include plans for addressing heterogeneity within the diagnostic category or categories.all applications that propose clinical trials to develop or test preventive, therapeutic, or services interventions, including studies that test dissemination and implementation strategies, are encouraged to follow the nimh’s experimental therapeutics approach to intervention development and testing (see nimh clinical trials foas). it is recommended that investigators contact nimh scientific/research staff well in advance of submitting applications to discuss the match to nimh priorities.national institute on minority health and health disparities (nimhd)the national institute on minority health and health disparities is specifically interested in innovative, adaptable and real-life multi-level interventions (refer to the nimhd research framework) addressing health/healthcare disparities among indigenous populations of the americas, and in countries from which there is a significant representation in the u.s. population (e.g., mexico, central and south america, and some countries in the caribbean, sub-saharan africa, and some countries in asia and the pacific). also, multi-sectoral interventions are of interest. we encourage research teams to incorporate measurements and assessmentsnational institute of neurological disorders and stroke (ninds)the national institute of neurological disorders and stroke (ninds) encourages applications that seek to equitably address common ncd risk factors through evidence-based interventions for high priority neurological health concerns in lmics, and native american/alaska native populations in the u.s., by aiding in the prevention, diagnosis, or treatment of the disorder. interdisciplinary collaborations that propose cost-effective and scalable approaches, with attention to appropriate community and stakeholder engagement, and the strengthening of research capacity for neurological care, are encouraged. applicants should consider opportunities for multi-sectoral partnerships, involving community groups, policymakers, and diverse institutions, to inform the development of culturally tailored and sustainable intervention strategies. research areas of interest comprise interventions for city/urban environments that aims to improve health equity and give attention to the social determinants of health. examples include, but are not limited to, research strategies that:high priority disease areas include stroke and other cerebrovascular diseases, epilepsy, brain trauma, migraine, parkinson's disease and other neurodegenerative disorders, and neurodevelopmental disorders (see: ninds disorder index https://www.ninds.nih.gov/health-information/disorders). projects that build upon previously funded ninds activities in the chronic, noncommunicable diseases and disorders research training (ncd-lifespan), human heredity and health in africa (h3africa), and the global brain disorders program are also encouraged.ninds may decline funding of any application that includes human subjects for programmatic or administrative reasons. applicants considering projects involving human subjects research are strongly encouraged to contact ninds scientific/research staff early in the process of preparing a submission. applicants interested in clinical trials for neurological disorders within the ninds mission, may also refer to ninds clinical trial-specific funding announcements. see: https://www.ninds.nih.gov/current-research/research-funded-ninds/clinical-research.ninds encourages the reuse of common data elements/data standards whenever appropriate. please see: ninds common data elements https://www.commondataelements.ninds.nih.gov/.nih office of disease prevention (odp)the nih office of disease prevention is the lead office at the nih responsible for assessing, facilitating, and stimulating research in disease prevention. in partnership with the 27 nih institutes and centers, the odp strives to increase the scope, quality, dissemination, and impact of nih-supported prevention research. the odp co-funds research that has strong implications for disease and injury prevention and health equity and that includes innovative and appropriate research design, measurement, and analysis methods. the odp has a specific interest in projects that develop and/or test preventive interventions. for this foa, the odp is interested in clinical trials that advance implementation science and reduce the risks of ncds in the context of cities in lmics and/or among ai/an tribal nation populations in cities in the united states, with the potential to equip policymakers and practitioners with evidence-based strategies for the prevention of ncds.the odp provides co-funding for, but does not award grants. applications must be relevant to the objectives of an nih institute or center. please reach out to the relevant nih contact listed for questions regarding research priorities and funding. odp only accepts co-funding requests from nih institutes and centers. for additional information about odp, please refer to the odp strategic plan for fiscal years 2019–2023.applications not responsive to the foaapplications proposing the following types of projects will not be considered responsive and will be withdrawn by the program official of the funding institute prior to review:applications that do not explicitly address the terms of this par will be considered non-responsive and will not be reviewed.see section viii. other information for award authorities and regulations.investigators proposing nih-defined clinical trials may refer to the research methods resources website for information about developing statistical methods and study designs.grant: a support mechanism providing money, property, or both to an eligible entity to carry out an approved project or activity.the oer glossary and the sf424 (r&r) application guide provide details on these application types. only those application types listed here are allowed for this foa.optional: accepting applications that either propose or do not propose clinical trial(s).need help determining whether you are doing a clinical trial?the number of awards is contingent upon nih appropriations and the submission of a sufficient number of meritorious applications.application budgets are not limited but need to reflect the actual needs of the proposed project.the scope of the proposed project should determine the project period. the maximum project period is 5 years.nih grants policies as described in the nih grants policy statement will apply to the applications submitted and awards made from this foa.1. eligible applicantshigher education institutionsthe following types of higher education institutions are always encouraged to apply for nih support as public or private institutions of higher education:nonprofits other than institutions of higher educationfor-profit organizationslocal governmentsfederal governmentsothernon-domestic applicant organizations are restricted to organizations in lmics, which are defined by the world bank as low-, lower-middle-, or upper-middle-income economies - http://data.worldbank.org/about/country-classifications/country-and-lending-groups.non-domestic (non-u.s.) entities (foreign institutions) are eligible to apply.non-domestic (non-u.s.) components of u.s. organizations are eligible to apply.foreign components, as defined in the nih grants policy statement, are allowed.applicant organizationsapplicant organizations must complete and maintain the following registrations as described in the sf 424 (r&r) application guide to be eligible to apply for or receive an award. all registrations must be completed prior to the application being submitted. registration can take 6 weeks or more, so applicants should begin the registration process as soon as possible. the nih policy on late submission of grant applications states that failure to complete registrations in advance of a due date is not a valid reason for a late submission.program directors/principal investigators (pd(s)/pi(s))all pd(s)/pi(s) must have an era commons account. pd(s)/pi(s) should work with their organizational officials to either create a new account or to affiliate their existing account with the applicant organization in era commons. if the pd/pi is also the organizational signing official, they must have two distinct era commons accounts, one for each role. obtaining an era commons account can take up to 2 weeks.any individual(s) with the skills, knowledge, and resources necessary to carry out the proposed research as the program director(s)/principal investigator(s) (pd(s)/pi(s)) is invited to work with his/her organization to develop an application for support. individuals from diverse backgrounds, including underrepresented racial and ethnic groups, individuals with disabilities, and women are always encouraged to apply for nih support. see, reminder: notice of nih's encouragement of applications supporting individuals from underrepresented ethnic and racial groups as well as individuals with disabilities, not-od-22-019.for institutions/organizations proposing multiple pds/pis, visit the multiple program director/principal investigator policy and submission details in the senior/key person profile (expanded) component of the sf424 (r&r) application guide.2. cost sharingthis foa does not require cost sharing as defined in the nih grants policy statement.3. additional information on eligibilitynumber of applicationsapplicant organizations may submit more than one application, provided that each application is scientifically distinct.the nih will not accept duplicate or highly overlapping applications under review at the same time, per 2.3.7.4 submission of resubmission application. this means that the nih will not accept:1. requesting an application packagethe application forms package specific to this opportunity must be accessed through assist, grants.gov workspace or an institutional system-to-system solution. links to apply using assist or grants.gov workspace are available in part 1 of this foa. see your administrative office for instructions if you plan to use an institutional system-to-system solution.2. content and form of application submissionit is critical that applicants follow the instructions in the research (r) instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide except where instructed in this funding opportunity announcement to do otherwise. conformance to the requirements in the application guide is required and strictly enforced. applications that are out of compliance with these instructions may be delayed or not accepted for review.letter of intentalthough a letter of intent is not required, is not binding, and does not enter into the review of a subsequent application, the information that it contains allows ic staff to estimate the potential review workload and plan the review.by the date listed in part 1. overview information, prospective applicants are asked to submit a letter of intent that includes the following information:the letter of intent should be sent to:brad newsome, ph.d. telephone: 301-480-8389 email: fic-gacd@mail.nih.govpage limitationsall page limitations described in the sf424 application guide and the table of page limits must be followed.the following section supplements the instructions found in the sf424 (r&r) application guide and should be used for preparing an application to this foa.note: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023, the data management and sharing plan will be attached in the other plan(s) attachment in forms-h application forms packages.sf424(r&r) coverall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.sf424(r&r) project/performance site locationsall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.applicants should include all institutions where research will occur as performance sites, including relevant u.s. and foreign institutions.sf424(r&r) other project informationall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.sf424(r&r) senior/key person profileall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.provide evidence that the pd(s)/pi(s) and key personnel have:document the relevant experience of each pd/pi and all key personnel and clearly define their roles and responsibilities in their program. applications proposing multiple pd(s)/pi(s) are required to include at least one pd/pi who has a primary academic appointment in an lmic or ai/an tribal nation/institution where the project will occur.r&r or modular budgetall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.the gacd will organize and lead the broader network, arranging cross-project working groups and annual joint meetings that all awardees are expected to attend. accordingly, applicants must budget for annual costs of having two team members participate in one annual three-day face-to-face meeting of the gacd network for implementation research (international meeting location to vary annually). attendance at this meeting is required for the pi and another key person from each awardee team, with participants from the lmic or ai/an tribal nation encouraged to attend. teams are also encouraged to include a junior investigator team member in each annual meeting. for planning purposes, applicants should budget to attend a start-up meeting in the washington, dc area during year 1 of the grant in addition to the gacd annual meeting (international location to vary annually).if applicable, budgets should include all costs associated with data safety and monitoring board (dsmb) and institutional review board (irb) activities, including preparing reports for the dsmb and irb, meeting reimbursement for dsmb members, support for at least two dsmb meetings per year, and clinical study and site monitoring. applicants should assess the need for liability insurance for dsmb members and provide a plan commensurate with the risk of the trial. the budget should include provision for executing the plan proposed. include a plan for assessing dsmb member conflict of interest and include associated costs in the budget.r&r subaward budgetall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.phs 398 cover page supplementall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.phs 398 research planall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed, with the following additional instructions:applications must address the following to be considered responsive to this foa:investigatorsdescribe (while minimizing repetition from the individual biosketches) how the expertise and experience of the investigator team will be leveraged, organized, and managed to meet the objectives of the proposed project. address the management and coordination of efforts. identify the collaborative process for engagement and involvement of stakeholders to participate fully in all phases of the implementation strategy, including design, deployment, testing, and reporting of results.letters of supportto be considered complete, applications must include letter(s) of support from collaborating partners, and/or other organization(s) indicating their relevant expertise and commitment to participate. applications without the required letter(s) of support will not be reviewed.if partial funding is to be provided by sources other than nih, provide letter(s) of support from the source(s) signed by an authorized representative.other plan(s):note: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023, the data management and sharing plan will be attached in the other plan(s) attachment in forms-h application forms packages.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed, with the following additional instructions:appendix:only limited appendix materials are allowed. follow all instructions for the appendix as described in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.phs human subjects and clinical trials informationwhen involving human subjects research, clinical research, and/or nih-defined clinical trials (and when applicable, clinical trials research experience) follow all instructions for the phs human subjects and clinical trials information form in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, with the following additional instructions:if you answered “yes” to the question “are human subjects involved?” on the r&r other project information form, you must include at least one human subjects study record using the study record: phs human subjects and clinical trials information form or delayed onset study record.study record: phs human subjects and clinical trials informationall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.delayed onset studynote: delayed onset does not apply to a study that can be described but will not start immediately (i.e., delayed start).all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.phs assignment request formall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.foreign institutionsforeign (non-u.s.) institutions must follow policies described in the nih grants policy statement, and procedures for foreign institutions described throughout the sf424 (r&r) application guide.3. unique entity identifier and system for award management (sam)see part 1. section iii.1 for information regarding the requirement for obtaining a unique entity identifier and for completing and maintaining active registrations in system for award management (sam), nato commercial and government entity (ncage) code (if applicable), era commons, and grants.gov4. submission dates and timespart i. overview information contains information about key dates and times. applicants are encouraged to submit applications before the due date to ensure they have time to make any application corrections that might be necessary for successful submission. when a submission date falls on a weekend or federal holiday, the application deadline is automatically extended to the next business day.organizations must submit applications to grants.gov (the online portal to find and apply for grants across all federal agencies). applicants must then complete the submission process by tracking the status of the application in the era commons, nih’s electronic system for grants administration. nih and grants.gov systems check the application against many of the application instructions upon submission. errors must be corrected and a changed/corrected application must be submitted to grants.gov on or before the application due date and time. if a changed/corrected application is submitted after the deadline, the application will be considered late. applications that miss the due date and time are subjected to the nih policy on late application submission.applicants are responsible for viewing their application before the due date in the era commons to ensure accurate and successful submission.information on the submission process and a definition of on-time submission are provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.5. intergovernmental review (e.o. 12372)this initiative is not subject to intergovernmental review.6. funding restrictionsall nih awards are subject to the terms and conditions, cost principles, and other considerations described in the nih grants policy statement.pre-award costs are allowable only as described in the nih grants policy statement.7. other submission requirements and informationapplications must be submitted electronically following the instructions described in the sf424 (r&r) application guide. paper applications will not be accepted.applicants must complete all required registrations before the application due date. section iii. eligibility information contains information about registration.for assistance with your electronic application or for more information on the electronic submission process, visit how to apply – application guide. if you encounter a system issue beyond your control that threatens your ability to complete the submission process on-time, you must follow the dealing with system issues guidance. for assistance with application submission, contact the application submission contacts in section vii.important reminders:all pd(s)/pi(s) must include their era commons id in the credential field of the senior/key person profile form. failure to register in the commons and to include a valid pd/pi commons id in the credential field will prevent the successful submission of an electronic application to nih. see section iii of this foa for information on registration requirements.the applicant organization must ensure that the unique entity identifier provided on the application is the same identifier used in the organization’s profile in the era commons and for the system for award management. additional information may be found in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.see more tips for avoiding common errors.upon receipt, applications will be evaluated for completeness and compliance with application instructions by the center for scientific review and responsiveness by components of participating organizations, nih. applications that are incomplete, non-compliant and/or nonresponsive will not be reviewed.requests of $500,000 or more for direct costs in any yearapplicants requesting $500,000 or more in direct costs in any year (excluding consortium f&a) must contact a scientific/ research contact at least 6 weeks before submitting the application and follow the policy on the acceptance for review of unsolicited applications that request $500,000 or more in direct costs as described in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.post submission materialsapplicants are required to follow the instructions for post-submission materials, as described in the policy1. criteriaonly the review criteria described below will be considered in the review process. applications submitted to the nih in support of the nih mission are evaluated for scientific and technical merit through the nih peer review system.note: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023, the data sharing plan and genomic data sharing plan (gds) will not be evaluated at time of review.a proposed clinical trial application may include study design, methods, and intervention that are not by themselves innovative but address important questions or unmet needs. additionally, the results of the clinical trial may indicate that further clinical development of the intervention is unwarranted or lead to new avenues of scientific investigation.reviewers will provide an overall impact score to reflect their assessment of the likelihood for the project to exert a sustained, powerful influence on the research field(s) involved, in consideration of the following review criteria and additional review criteria (as applicable for the project proposed).reviewers will consider each of the review criteria below in the determination of scientific merit and give a separate score for each. an application does not need to be strong in all categories to be judged likely to have major scientific impact. for example, a project that by its nature is not innovative may be essential to advance a field.does the project address an important problem or a critical barrier to progress in the field? is the prior research that serves as the key support for the proposed project rigorous? if the aims of the project are achieved, how will scientific knowledge, technical capability, and/or clinical practice be improved? how will successful completion of the aims change the concepts, methods, technologies, treatments, services, or preventative interventions that drive this field?in addition, for applications involving clinical trialsare the scientific rationale and need for a clinical trial to test the proposed hypothesis or intervention well supported by preliminary data, clinical and/or preclinical studies, or information in the literature or knowledge of biological mechanisms? for trials focusing on clinical or public health endpoints, is this clinical trial necessary for testing the safety, efficacy or effectiveness of an intervention that could lead to a change in clinical practice, community behaviors or health care policy? for trials focusing on mechanistic, behavioral, physiological, biochemical, or other biomedical endpoints, is this trial needed to advance scientific understanding?specific to this foa:are the pd(s)/pi(s), collaborators, and other researchers well suited to the project? if early stage investigators or those in the early stages of independent careers, do they have appropriate experience and training? if established, have they demonstrated an ongoing record of accomplishments that have advanced their field(s)? if the project is collaborative or multi-pd/pi, do the investigators have complementary and integrated expertise; are their leadership approach, governance and organizational structure appropriate for the project?in addition, for applications involving clinical trialswith regard to the proposed leadership for the project, do the pd/pi(s) and key personnel have the expertise, experience, and ability to organize, manage and implement the proposed clinical trial and meet milestones and timelines? do they have appropriate expertise in study coordination, data management and statistics? for a multicenter trial, is the organizational structure appropriate and does the application identify a core of potential center investigators and staffing for a coordinating center?specific to this foa:does the application challenge and seek to shift current research or clinical practice paradigms by utilizing novel theoretical concepts, approaches or methodologies, instrumentation, or interventions? are the concepts, approaches or methodologies, instrumentation, or interventions novel to one field of research or novel in a broad sense? is a refinement, improvement, or new application of theoretical concepts, approaches or methodologies, instrumentation, or interventions proposed?in addition, for applications involving clinical trialsdoes the design/research plan include innovative elements, as appropriate, that enhance its sensitivity, potential for information or potential to advance scientific knowledge or clinical practice?specific to this foa:are the overall strategy, methodology, and analyses well-reasoned and appropriate to accomplish the specific aims of the project? have the investigators included plans to address weaknesses in the rigor of prior research that serves as the key support for the proposed project? have the investigators presented strategies to ensure a robust and unbiased approach, as appropriate for the work proposed? are potential problems, alternative strategies, and benchmarks for success presented? if the project is in the early stages of development, will the strategy establish feasibility and will particularly risky aspects be managed? have the investigators presented adequate plans to address relevant biological variables, such as sex, for studies in vertebrate animals or human subjects?if the project involves human subjects and/or nih-defined clinical research, are the plans to address 1) the protection of human subjects from research risks, and 2) inclusion (or exclusion) of individuals on the basis of sex/gender, race, and ethnicity, as well as the inclusion or exclusion of individuals of all ages (including children and older adults), justified in terms of the scientific goals and research strategy proposed?in addition, for applications involving clinical trialsdoes the application adequately address the following, if applicablestudy designis the study design justified and appropriate to address primary and secondary outcome variable(s)/endpoints that will be clear, informative and relevant to the hypothesis being tested? is the scientific rationale/premise of the study based on previously well-designed preclinical and/or clinical research? given the methods used to assign participants and deliver interventions, is the study design adequately powered to answer the research question(s), test the proposed hypothesis/hypotheses, and provide interpretable results? is the trial appropriately designed to conduct the research efficiently? are the study populations (size, gender, age, demographic group), proposed intervention arms/dose, and duration of the trial, appropriate and well justified?are potential ethical issues adequately addressed? is the process for obtaining informed consent or assent appropriate? is the eligible population available? are the plans for recruitment outreach, enrollment, retention, handling dropouts, missed visits, and losses to follow-up appropriate to ensure robust data collection? are the planned recruitment timelines feasible and is the plan to monitor accrual adequate? has the need for randomization (or not), masking (if appropriate), controls, and inclusion/exclusion criteria been addressed? are differences addressed, if applicable, in the intervention effect due to sex/gender and race/ethnicity?are the plans to standardize, assure quality of, and monitor adherence to, the trial protocol and data collection or distribution guidelines appropriate? is there a plan to obtain required study agent(s)? does the application propose to use existing available resources, as applicable?data management and statistical analysisare planned analyses and statistical approach appropriate for the proposed study design and methods used to assign participants and deliver interventions? are the procedures for data management and quality control of data adequate at clinical site(s) or at center laboratories, as applicable? have the methods for standardization of procedures for data management to assess the effect of the intervention and quality control been addressed? is there a plan to complete data analysis within the proposed period of the award?specific to this foa:will the scientific environment in which the work will be done contribute to the probability of success? are the institutional support, equipment and other physical resources available to the investigators adequate for the project proposed? will the project benefit from unique features of the scientific environment, subject populations, or collaborative arrangements?in addition, for applications involving clinical trialsif proposed, are the administrative, data coordinating, enrollment and laboratory/testing centers, appropriate for the trial proposed?does the application adequately address the capability and ability to conduct the trial at the proposed site(s) or centers? are the plans to add or drop enrollment centers, as needed, appropriate?if international site(s) is/are proposed, does the application adequately address the complexity of executing the clinical trial?if multi-sites/centers, is there evidence of the ability of the individual site or center to: (1) enroll the proposed numbers; (2) adhere to the protocol; (3) collect and transmit data in an accurate and timely fashion; and, (4) operate within the proposed organizational structure?specific to this foa:as applicable for the project proposed, reviewers will evaluate the following additional items while determining scientific and technical merit, and in providing an overall impact score, but will not give separate scores for these items.specific to applications involving clinical trialsis the study timeline described in detail, taking into account start-up activities, the anticipated rate of enrollment, and planned follow-up assessment? is the projected timeline feasible and well justified? does the project incorporate efficiencies and utilize existing resources (e.g., ctsas, practice-based research networks, electronic medical records, administrative database, or patient registries) to increase the efficiency of participant enrollment and data collection, as appropriate?are potential challenges and corresponding solutions discussed (e.g., strategies that can be implemented in the event of enrollment shortfalls)?for research that involves human subjects but does not involve one of the categories of research that are exempt under 45 cfr part 46, the committee will evaluate the justification for involvement of human subjects and the proposed protections from research risk relating to their participation according to the following five review criteria: 1) risk to subjects, 2) adequacy of protection against risks, 3) potential benefits to the subjects and others, 4) importance of the knowledge to be gained, and 5) data and safety monitoring for clinical trials.for research that involves human subjects and meets the criteria for one or more of the categories of research that are exempt under 45 cfr part 46, the committee will evaluate: 1) the justification for the exemption, 2) human subjects involvement and characteristics, and 3) sources of materials. for additional information on review of the human subjects section, please refer to the guidelines for the review of human subjects.when the proposed project involves human subjects and/or nih-defined clinical research, the committee will evaluate the proposed plans for the inclusion (or exclusion) of individuals on the basis of sex/gender, race, and ethnicity, as well as the inclusion (or exclusion) of individuals of all ages (including children and older adults) to determine if it is justified in terms of the scientific goals and research strategy proposed. for additional information on review of the inclusion section, please refer to the guidelines for the review of inclusion in clinical research.the committee will evaluate the involvement of live vertebrate animals as part of the scientific assessment according to the following criteria: (1) description of proposed procedures involving animals, including species, strains, ages, sex, and total number to be used; (2) justifications for the use of animals versus alternative models and for the appropriateness of the species proposed; (3) interventions to minimize discomfort, distress, pain and injury; and (4) justification for euthanasia method if not consistent with the avma guidelines for the euthanasia of animals. reviewers will assess the use of chimpanzees as they would any other application proposing the use of vertebrate animals. for additional information on review of the vertebrate animals section, please refer to the worksheet for review of the vertebrate animal section.reviewers will assess whether materials or procedures proposed are potentially hazardous to research personnel and/or the environment, and if needed, determine whether adequate protection is proposed.not applicablenot applicablenot applicableas applicable for the project proposed, reviewers will consider each of the following items, but will not give scores for these items, and should not consider them in providing an overall impact score.reviewers will assess whether the project presents special opportunities for furthering research programs through the use of unusual talent, resources, populations, or environmental conditions that exist in other countries and either are not readily available in the united states or augment existing u.s. resources.reviewers will assess the information provided in this section of the application, including 1) the select agent(s) to be used in the proposed research, 2) the registration status of all entities where select agent(s) will be used, 3) the procedures that will be used to monitor possession use and transfer of select agent(s), and 4) plans for appropriate biosafety, biocontainment, and security of the select agent(s).note: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023, the data sharing plan and genomic data sharing plan (gds) will not be evaluated at time of review.reviewers will comment on whether the resource sharing plan(s) (i.e., sharing model organisms) or the rationale for not sharing the resources, is reasonable.for projects involving key biological and/or chemical resources, reviewers will comment on the brief plans proposed for identifying and ensuring the validity of those resources.reviewers will consider whether the budget and the requested period of support are fully justified and reasonable in relation to the proposed research.2. review and selection processapplications will be evaluated for scientific and technical merit by an appropriate scientific review group convened by the center for scientific review (csr), in accordance with nih peer review policy and procedures, using the stated review criteria. assignment to a scientific review group will be shown in the era commons.as part of the scientific peer review, all applications will receive a written critique.applications may undergo a selection process in which only those applications deemed to have the highest scientific and technical merit (generally the top half of applications under review) will be discussed and assigned an overall impact score.applications will be assigned on the basis of established phs referral guidelines to the appropriate nih institute or center. applications will compete for available funds with all other recommended applications. following initial peer review, recommended applications will receive a second level of review by the appropriate national advisory council or board. the following will be considered in making funding decisions:3. anticipated announcement and award datesafter the peer review of the application is completed, the pd/pi will be able to access his or her summary statement (written critique) via the era commons. refer to part 1 for dates for peer review, advisory council review, and earliest start date.information regarding the disposition of applications is available in the nih grants policy statement.1. award noticesif the application is under consideration for funding, nih will request "just-in-time" information from the applicant as described in the nih grants policy statement.a formal notification in the form of a notice of award (noa) will be provided to the applicant organization for successful applications. the noa signed by the grants management officer is the authorizing document and will be sent via email to the recipient's business official.recipients must comply with any funding restrictions described in section iv.6. funding restrictions. selection of an application for award is not an authorization to begin performance. any costs incurred before receipt of the noa are at the recipient's risk. these costs may be reimbursed only to the extent considered allowable pre-award costs.any application awarded in response to this foa will be subject to terms and conditions found on the award conditions and information for nih grants website. this includes any recent legislation and policy applicable to awards that is highlighted on this website.individual awards are based on the application submitted to, and as approved by, the nih and are subject to the ic-specific terms and conditions identified in the noa.clinicaltrials.gov: if an award provides for one or more clinical trials. by law (title viii, section 801 of public law 110-85), the "responsible party" must register and submit results information for certain “applicable clinical trials” on the clinicaltrials.gov protocol registration and results system information website (https://register.clinicaltrials.gov). nih expects registration and results reporting of all trials whether required under the law or not. for more information, see https://grants.nih.gov/policy/clinical-trials/reporting/index.htminstitutional review board or independent ethics committee approval: recipient institutions must ensure that all protocols are reviewed by their irb or iec. to help ensure the safety of participants enrolled in nih-funded studies, the recipient must provide nih copies of documents related to all major changes in the status of ongoing protocols.data and safety monitoring requirements: the nih policy for data and safety monitoring requires oversight and monitoring of all nih-conducted or -supported human biomedical and behavioral intervention studies (clinical trials) to ensure the safety of participants and the validity and integrity of the data. further information concerning these requirements is found at http://grants.nih.gov/grants/policy/hs/data_safety.htm and in the application instructions (sf424 (r&r) and phs 398).investigational new drug or investigational device exemption requirements: consistent with federal regulations, clinical research projects involving the use of investigational therapeutics, vaccines, or other medical interventions (including licensed products and devices for a purpose other than that for which they were licensed) in humans under a research protocol must be performed under a food and drug administration (fda) investigational new drug (ind) or investigational device exemption (ide).2. administrative and national policy requirementsall nih grant and cooperative agreement awards include the nih grants policy statement as part of the noa. for these terms of award, see the nih grants policy statement part ii: terms and conditions of nih grant awards, subpart a: generaland part ii: terms and conditions of nih grant awards, subpart b: terms and conditions for specific types of grants, recipients, and activities, including of note, but not limited to:if a recipient is successful and receives a notice of award, in accepting the award, the recipient agrees that any activities under the award are subject to all provisions currently in effect or implemented during the period of the award, other department regulations and policies in effect at the time of the award, and applicable statutory provisions.should the applicant organization successfully compete for an award, recipients of federal financial assistance (ffa) from hhs must administer their programs in compliance with federal civil rights laws that prohibit discrimination on the basis of race, color, national origin, disability, age and, in some circumstances, religion, conscience, and sex (including gender identity, sexual orientation, and pregnancy). this includes ensuring programs are accessible to persons with limited english proficiency and persons with disabilities. the hhs office for civil rights provides guidance on complying with civil rights laws enforced by hhs. please see https://www.hhs.gov/civil-rights/for-providers/provider-obligations/index.html and https://www.hhs.gov/civil-rights/for-individuals/nondiscrimination/index.htmlhhs recognizes that research projects are often limited in scope for many reasons that are nondiscriminatory, such as the principal investigator’s scientific interest, funding limitations, recruitment requirements, and other considerations. thus, criteria in research protocols that target or exclude certain populations are warranted where nondiscriminatory justifications establish that such criteria are appropriate with respect to the health or safety of the subjects, the scientific study design, or the purpose of the research. for additional guidance regarding how the provisions apply to nih grant programs, please contact the scientific/research contact that is identified in section vii under agency contacts of this foa.please contact the hhs office for civil rights for more information about obligations and prohibitions under federal civil rights laws at https://www.hhs.gov/ocr/about-us/contact-us/index.html or call 1-800-368-1019 or tdd 1-800-537-7697.in accordance with the statutory provisions contained in section 872 of the duncan hunter national defense authorization act of fiscal year 2009 (public law 110-417), nih awards will be subject to the federal awardee performance and integrity information system (fapiis) requirements. fapiis requires federal award making officials to review and consider information about an applicant in the designated integrity and performance system (currently fapiis) prior to making an award. an applicant, at its option, may review information in the designated integrity and performance systems accessible through fapiis and comment on any information about itself that a federal agency previously entered and is currently in fapiis. the federal awarding agency will consider any comments by the applicant, in addition to other information in fapiis, in making a judgement about the applicant’s integrity, business ethics, and record of performance under federal awards when completing the review of risk posed by applicants as described in 45 cfr part 75.205 and 2 cfr part 200.206 “federal awarding agency review of risk posed by applicants.” this provision will apply to all nih grants and cooperative agreements except fellowships.not applicable3. data management and sharingnote: the nih policy for data management and sharing is effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023.consistent with the nih policy for data management and sharing, when data management and sharing is applicable to the award, recipients will be required to adhere to the data management and sharing requirements as outlined in the nih grants policy statement. upon the approval of a data management and sharing plan, it is required for recipients to implement the plan as described.4. reportingwhen multiple years are involved, recipients will be required to submit the research performance progress report (rppr) annually and financial statements as required in the nih grants policy statement.a final rppr, invention statement, and the expenditure data portion of the federal financial report are required for closeout of an award, as described in the nih grants policy statement. nih foas outline intended research goals and objectives. post award, nih will review and measure performance based on the details and outcomes that are shared within the rppr, as described at 45 cfr part 75.301 and 2 cfr part 200.301.the federal funding accountability and transparency act of 2006 (transparency act), includes a requirement for recipients of federal grants to report information about first-tier subawards and executive compensation under federal assistance awards issued in fy2011 or later. all recipients of applicable nih grants and cooperative agreements are required to report to the federal subaward reporting system (fsrs) available at www.fsrs.gov on all subawards over the threshold. see the nih grants policy statement for additional information on this reporting requirement.in accordance with the regulatory requirements provided at 45 cfr 75.113 and 2 cfr part 200.113 and appendix xii to 45 cfr part 75 and 2 cfr part 200, recipients that have currently active federal grants, cooperative agreements, and procurement contracts from all federal awarding agencies with a cumulative total value greater than $10,000,000 for any period of time during the period of performance of a federal award, must report and maintain the currency of information reported in the system for award management (sam) about civil, criminal, and administrative proceedings in connection with the award or performance of a federal award that reached final disposition within the most recent five-year period. the recipient must also make semiannual disclosures regarding such proceedings. proceedings information will be made publicly available in the designated integrity and performance system (currently fapiis). this is a statutory requirement under section 872 of public law 110-417, as amended (41 u.s.c. 2313). as required by section 3010 of public law 111-212, all information posted in the designated integrity and performance system on or after april 15, 2011, except past performance reviews required for federal procurement contracts, will be publicly available. full reporting requirements and procedures are found in appendix xii to 45 cfr part 75 and 2 cfr part 200 – award term and condition for recipient integrity and performance matters.we encourage inquiries concerning this funding opportunity and welcome the opportunity to answer questions from potential applicants.era service desk (questions regarding assist, era commons, application errors and warnings, documenting system problems that threaten submission by the due date, and post-submission issues)finding help online: https://www.era.nih.gov/need-help (preferred method of contact) telephone: 301-402-7469 or 866-504-9552 (toll free)general grants information (questions regarding application instructions, application processes, and nih grant resources) email: grantsinfo@nih.gov (preferred method of contact) telephone: 301-637-3015grants.gov customer support (questions regarding grants.gov registration and workspace) contact center telephone: 800-518-4726 email: support@grants.govbrad newsome, ph.d. fogarty international center (fic) telephone: 301-480-8389 email: fic-gacd@mail.nih.govkathleen etz national institute on drug abuse (nida) phone: (301) 402-1749 e-mail: ketz@mail.nih.govrichard t. benson, m.d., ph.d. national institute of neurological disorders and stroke (ninds) email: richard.benson@nih.govlarissa avilés-santa, m.d., m.p.h. director, clinical and health services research national institute on minority health and health disparities (nimhd) telephone: 301-402-1366 email: avilessantal@nih.govneilson, elizabeth (nih/od) odp email: neilsone@mail.nih.gov tel: 301.827.5578marie d ricciardone, phd national cancer institute telephone: 240-276-5151 email: marie.ricciardone@nih.govminki chatterji, ph.d. national institute on aging (nia) phone: 301-435-0998 e-mail: minki.chatterji@nih.govlindsey ann martin, phd national institute of environmental health sciences (niehs) phone: 984-287-4036 e-mail: lindsey.martin@nih.govandrea horvath marques, m.d., mph, ph.d. national institute of mental health (nimh) telephone: 301-646-7320 email: andrea.horvathmarques@nih.govmakeda j williams national heart, lung, and blood institute (nhlbi) phone: 301-435-4582 e-mail: willimak@mail.nih.govcenter for scientific review (csr)email: foareviewcontact@csr.nih.govbruce butrum fogarty international center (fic) telephone: 301-496-1670 email: butrumb@mail.nih.govpamela g fleming national institute on drug abuse (nida) phone: 301-480-1159 e-mail: pfleming@mail.nih.govchief grants management officer national institute of neurological disorders and stroke (ninds) email: chiefgrantsmanagementofficer@ninds.nih.govpriscilla grant, j.d. grants management branch email: pg38h@nih.gov phone: 301-594-8412dawn m. mitchum national cancer institute telephone: 202-430-2997 email: dawn.mitchum@nih.govryan blakeney national institute on aging (nia) phone: 301-451-9802 e-mail: blakeneyr@mail.nih.govjenny l greer national institute of environmental health sciences (niehs) phone: 984.287.3332 e-mail: jenny.greer@nih.govtamara kees national institute of mental health (nimh) telephone: 301-443-811 email: tkees@mail.nih.govanthony agresti national heart, lung, and blood institute (nhlbi) phone: 301-827-8014 e-mail: agrestia@nhlbi.nih.govrecently issued trans-nih policy notices may affect your application submission. a full list of policy notices published by nih is provided in the nih guide for grants and contracts. all awards are subject to the terms and conditions, cost principles, and other considerations described in the nih grants policy statement.awards are made under the authorization of sections 301 and 405 of the public health service act as amended (42 usc 241 and 284) and under federal regulations 42 cfr part 52 and 45 cfr part 75 and 2 cfr part 200.weekly toc for this announcement nih funding opportunities and noticesnote: for help accessing pdf, rtf, ms word, excel, powerpoint, audio or video files, see help downloading files.