Clinical Coordinating Center for Multi-Site Investigator-Initiated Clinical Trials (Collaborative UG3/UH3 Clinical Trial Required)
https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/pa-files/PAR-22-192.html
national institutes of health (nih)national heart, lung, and blood institute (nhlbi)ug3/uh3 exploratory/developmental phased award cooperative agreementnot-od-23-012 reminder: forms-h grant application forms and instructions must be used for due dates on or after january 25, 2023 - new grant application instructions now availablenot-od-22-190 - adjustments to nih and ahrq grant application due dates between september 22 and september 30, 2022see section iii. 3. additional information on eligibility.this funding opportunity announcement (foa) supports applications to develop and implement a clinical coordinating center (ccc) for investigator-initiated multi-site clinical trials including efficacy, comparative effectiveness, pragmatic and/or implementation research clinical trials. trials using innovative designs such as platform trials, adaptive, and bayesian designs are encouraged. trials for which this foa applies must be relevant to the research mission of the nhlbi and meet the nih definition of a clinical trial (see not-od-15-015). for additional information about the mission, strategic vision, and research priorities of the nhlbi, applicants are encouraged to consult the nhlbi website. this foa will utilize a bi-phasic, milestone-driven cooperative agreement mechanism of award and runs in parallel with a companion foa that encourages applications for a collaborating data coordinating center (par-22-193). the objective of the ccc application is to present the scientific rationale for the clinical trial and a comprehensive scientific and operational plan that describes it. the application should address project management, subject recruitment and retention, performance milestones, scientific conduct of the trial, and dissemination of results. the application should also describe its approaches to increasing community engagement and diversity as well as reducing health inequities and disparities. both a ccc application and a collaborating data coordinating center (dcc) application must be submitted on the same application due date for consideration by nhlbi. applicants are strongly encouraged to contact the appropriate scientific/research contact prior to submitting an application.30 days prior to the application due dateall applications are due by 5:00 pm local time of applicant organization.applicants are encouraged to apply early to allow adequate time to make any corrections to errors found in the application during the submission process by the due date.applications must be submitted for the same due date as the collaborating dcc application.not applicableit is critical that applicants follow the instructions in the research (r) instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, except where instructed to do otherwise (in this foa or in a notice from nih guide for grants and contracts).conformance to all requirements (both in the application guide and the foa) is required and strictly enforced. applicants must read and follow all application instructions in the application guide as well as any program-specific instructions noted in section iv. when the program-specific instructions deviate from those in the application guide, follow the program-specific instructions.applications that do not comply with these instructions may be delayed or not accepted for review.there are several options available to submit your application through grants.gov to nih and department of health and human services partners. you must use one of these submission options to access the application forms for this opportunity.research objectivesthis foa supports applications to develop and implement a clinical coordinating center (ccc) for investigator-initiated multi-site clinical trials. clinical trials supported by this foa include phase ii and above clinical trials that will enroll participants from two or more recruitment sites. applications that propose to leverage resources and infrastructure of active clinical trial networks are also supported by this foa. this foa will utilize a bi-phasic (ug3/uh3), milestone-driven mechanism consisting of a start-up phase of up to one year (ug3) and a full enrollment and clinical trial execution phase (uh3). applicants must address objectives for both a ug3 and a uh3 phase and are strongly encouraged to use project management principles, as appropriate. proposed research may utilize a design anywhere along the continuum of efficacy, effectiveness, pragmatic and/or implementation research clinical trials. for this foa, pragmatic trials are considered those that test an intervention under the usual clinical conditions in which it will be applied, while efficacy trials do so under more idealized circumstances. implementation trials test strategies to adopt and integrate evidence-based health interventions and change practice patterns within specific settings. innovative trial designs such as adaptive designs will be considered. the trial design should be appropriate for the study question. trials for which this foa applies are expected to contribute to the evidence base for important health matters of relevance to the research mission of nhlbi, including approaches to increase diversity of participants in the research and reduce health inequities and disparities. for additional information about the mission, strategic vision, and research priorities of the nhlbi, applicants are encouraged to consult the nhlbi website.a key characteristic of this foa is completion of core milestones. a core milestone is defined as a scheduled event in the project timeline that signifies the completion of a major project stage or activity. milestones must be performance-based to achieve completion of the trial on time and on budget, and must be established for both the ug3 and uh3 phases of the project. these clinical trials are expected to be conducted with a high degree of efficiency, with streamlined administrative procedures wherever possible. applications that address contingency plans to proactively confront potential delays or disturbances in meeting the milestones are strongly encouraged.phases of awardthe ug3 phase will support the development of the protocol, manual of operations, and other resources necessary to the performance of the trial; further development of study partnerships; finalization of the protocol; data and safety monitoring board; and single institutional review board (see not-od-16-094) approvals of the trial protocol and informed consent(s)/assent(s); activation of clinical sites; and initiation of recruitment, which is expected to begin by the end of the ug3 phase.for trials using an fda regulated product and requiring an ind or ide application to administer the product to humans, investigators must (1) secure ind authorization or ide approval and (2) provide documentation of this authorization or approval to nhlbi before a funding decision will be made. necessary drugs, devices, or other resources must be obtained by the end of the ug3 award to allow for the successful launch and execution of the proposed clinical trial in the uh3 phase.investigators and nhlbi will review and mutually agree upon the milestones that will be included in the terms and conditions of the grant, if awarded. transition to the uh3 phase is predicated on the successful completion of all core milestones proposed and peer-reviewed for the ug3 phase of the application. the core milestones must be met during the ug3 phase to allow for successful launch of the full trial in the uh3 phase of the clinical trial. the overall planned enrollment and percentage of active clinical sites expected by the end of the ug3 phase will be agreed upon between the grantee organization (or recipient) and the nhlbi prior to an award. enrollment of participants into the clinical trial is expected to begin before the end of the ug3 phase to optimize the probability of successfully completing the trial on time and on budget. nhlbi will conduct an administrative review approximately 9 months into the ug3 phase to determine progress toward achievement of milestones included in the notice of award. milestones and timelines for the uh3 phase may be revised and finalized at the time of the ug3/uh3 transition. less than satisfactory progress in the uh3 phase may lead to phasing out the award.milestones must address timing of overall recruitment/enrollment and retention goals, including accrual goals for women, minorities, and individuals of all ages including children and older adults. it is expected that, if funded, both the ccc and dcc will be responsible for milestone completion but that only one party, the ccc or the dcc, will be responsible for recording the completion of both ccc and dcc milestones through econnect, an nhlbi platform that facilitates transfer of electronic information to nhlbi. subject to nhlbi funding availability and scientific priorities, uh3 awards will be made after administrative review with specific attention to the extent to which all agreed-upon milestones have been met. if the uh3 is funded, nhlbi will review the progress of the clinical trial on a regular basis. slower than anticipated progress towards meeting milestones will result in a re-evaluation of the award by nhlbi including whether the objectives of the trial can be met on time and on budget. if milestones have not been satisfactorily met, subsequent funding years may not be approved and may lead to phasing out the award.nhlbi policies regarding milestones and relevant clinical research/studies policies are described in the following: nhlbi accrual of human subjects (milestones) policy, nhlbi policy for inclusion of women and minorities in clinical research, nhlbi policy for data and safety monitoring of extramural clinical studies, nih single irb policy and nhlbi data sharing policy.note: this ccc foa runs in parallel with a companion foa (par-22-193) for a collaborating data coordinating center (dcc) application. both a ccc application and a collaborating dcc application must be submitted on the same due date for consideration by nhlbi. ccc (ug3/uh3) applications submitted without a collaborative dcc (u24) application will be deemed incomplete and will not proceed to review.clinical studies not supported by this foathe following types of clinical studies are not intended to be supported by this foa and will not proceed to peer review:prior to submission applicants are strongly encouraged to consult with the scientific/research contacts for the area of science for which they are planning to develop an application prior to submission to confirm the nhlbi-specific clinical trial foa to which the application should be submitted. early contact (at least 12 weeks prior to submission) is encouraged. this period of time provides an opportunity for nhlbi staff to discuss the scope and goals, and to provide information and guidance to potential applicants. additionally, a staff consultation is required when direct costs are $500,000 or higher (see nhlbi policy regarding direct costs of $500,000 or more).notice of nih's interest in diversityevery facet of the united states scientific research enterprise—from basic laboratory research to clinical and translational research to policy formation–requires superior intellect, creativity and a wide range of skill sets and viewpoints. nih’s ability to help ensure that the nation remains a global leader in scientific discovery and innovation is dependent upon a pool of highly talented scientists from diverse backgrounds who will help to further nih's mission. research shows that diverse teams working together and capitalizing on innovative ideas and distinct perspectives outperform homogenous teams. scientists and trainees from diverse backgrounds and life experiences bring different perspectives, creativity, and individual enterprise to address complex scientific problems. there are many benefits that flow from a diverse nih-supported scientific workforce, including: fostering scientific innovation, enhancing global competitiveness, contributing to robust learning environments, improving the quality of the research, advancing the likelihood that underserved or health disparity populations participate in, and benefit from health research, and enhancing public trust. in spite of tremendous advancements in scientific research, information, educational and research opportunities are not equally available to all. nih encourages institutions to diversify their student and faculty populations to enhance the participation of individuals from groups that are underrepresented in the biomedical, clinical, behavioral and social sciences. see not-od-20-031 and reminder: notice of nih's encouragement of applications supporting individuals from underrepresented ethnic and racial groups as well as individuals with disabilities not-od-22-019 for details.see section viii. other information for award authorities and regulations.cooperative agreement: a support mechanism used when there will be substantial federal scientific or programmatic involvement. substantial involvement means that, after award, nih scientific or program staff will assist, guide, coordinate, or participate in project activities. see section vi.2 for additional information about the substantial involvement for this foa.the oer glossary and the sf424 (r&r) application guide provide details on these application types. only those application types listed here are allowed for this foa.required: only accepting applications that propose clinical trial(s).need help determining whether you are doing a clinical trial?the number of awards is contingent upon nih appropriations and the submission of a sufficient number of meritorious applications.application budgets are not limited but need to reflect the actual needs of the proposed project. the combined budgets of the ccc and dcc will be used to determine whether the policy regarding direct costs of $500,000 or more in any year will be applied.the scope of the proposed project should determine the requested project award period.the project period for the ug3 phase will be up to 1 year.the project period for the uh3 phase is expected to be 4 years. with strong justification, up to 6 years for the uh3 may be requested.nih grants policies as described in the nih grants policy statement will apply to the applications submitted and awards made from this foa.1. eligible applicantshigher education institutionsthe following types of higher education institutions are always encouraged to apply for nih support as public or private institutions of higher education:nonprofits other than institutions of higher educationfor-profit organizationslocal governmentsfederal governmentotherothernon-domestic (non-u.s.) entities (foreign institutions) are eligible to apply.non-domestic (non-u.s.) components of u.s. organizations are eligible to apply.foreign components, as defined in the nih grants policy statement, are allowed.applicant organizationsapplicant organizations must complete and maintain the following registrations as described in the sf 424 (r&r) application guide to be eligible to apply for or receive an award. all registrations must be completed prior to the application being submitted. registration can take 6 weeks or more, so applicants should begin the registration process as soon as possible. the nih policy on late submission of grant applications states that failure to complete registrations in advance of a due date is not a valid reason for a late submission.program directors/principal investigators (pd(s)/pi(s))all pd(s)/pi(s) must have an era commons account. pd(s)/pi(s) should work with their organizational officials to either create a new account or to affiliate their existing account with the applicant organization in era commons. if the pd/pi is also the organizational signing official, they must have two distinct era commons accounts, one for each role. obtaining an era commons account can take up to 2 weeks.any individual(s) with the skills, knowledge, and resources necessary to carry out the proposed research as the program director(s)/principal investigator(s) (pd(s)/pi(s)) is invited to work with his/her organization to develop an application for support. individuals from underrepresented racial and ethnic groups as well as individuals with disabilities are always encouraged to apply for nih support. see, reminder: notice of nih's encouragement of applications supporting individuals from underrepresented ethnic and racial groups as well as individuals with disabilities not-od-22-019.for institutions/organizations proposing multiple pds/pis, visit the multiple program director/principal investigator policy and submission details in the senior/key person profile (expanded) component of the sf424 (r&r) application guide.multiple pds/pis are allowed on any single application. because the foa already supports a team approach between groups of experts across sites and collaborating applications, the designation of multiple pds/pis on a single application may be less likely to apply. pd(s)/pi(s) from each linked application should not be designated as multiple pds/pis on each application of a collaborative set.esi applicants can be the pi/pd of an application providing they can show support of investigators with appropriate clinical trials experience (as part of a multiple pi team). esis are encouraged to be part of the study team and they should be budgeted for support at a level appropriate for the role on the project.2. cost sharingthis foa does not require cost sharing as defined in the nih grants policy statement.3. additional information on eligibilitynumber of applicationsapplicant organizations may submit more than one application, provided that each application is scientifically distinct.the nih will not accept duplicate or highly overlapping applications under review at the same time, per 2.3.7.4 submission of resubmission application. this means that the nih will not accept:this foa only accepts an application that is part of a collaborative pair of applications. the pair must include one application to this ccc ug3/uh3 foa plus one application to the companion dcc u24 foa.1. requesting an application packagethe application forms package specific to this opportunity must be accessed through assist, grants.gov workspace or an institutional system-to-system solution. links to apply using assist or grants.gov workspace are available in part 1 of this foa. see your administrative office for instructions if you plan to use an institutional system-to-system solution.2. content and form of application submissionletter of intentalthough a letter of intent is not required, is not binding, and does not enter into the review of a subsequent application, the information that it contains allows ic staff to estimate the potential review workload and plan the review.by the date listed in part 1. overview information, prospective applicants are asked to submit a letter of intent that includes the following information:the letter of intent should be sent to:director, office of scientific review national heart, lung, and blood institute email: nhlbichiefreviewbranch@nhlbi.nih.govall page limitations described in the sf424 application guide and the table of page limits must be followed.note: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023, the data management and sharing (dms) plan will be attached in the other plan(s) attachment in forms-h and subsequent application forms packages. for due dates on or before january 24, 2023, the data sharing plan and genomic data sharing plan gds) will continue to be attached in the resource sharing plan attachment in forms-g application forms packages.the following section supplements the instructions found in the sf424 (r&r) application guide and should be used for preparing an application to this foa.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.descriptive title of applicant's project: to allow nih to identify a group of applications as a related set of collaborative applications, the title of each application in the set must have the following format: a “1/n” indicator + identical title (e.g., “1/3”, where the 1/3 means this is site 1 of 3 sites in the set. the other sites will be labeled 2/3, etc.) titles may not exceed 200 characters in length, including the tag, e.g., 1/3, at the beginning of the title.cover letter attachment: the cover letter is one pdf file only. the following collaborative information is required in the cover letter: a listing of all the applications that are a part of the set of collaborative applications being submitted, including for each: 1) the pd/pi(s) name(s), 2) the title (including the tag, e.g., “1/3”), and 3) the applicant institution. each site should submit an identical listing.if the direct costs of the combined ccc and dcc budgets equal or exceed $500,000 in any given year, a copy of the nhlbi approval letter must be attached.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.facilities and other resources: describe the facilities and resources available for the coordination of a multi-site clinical trial, including project management tools that will be used. describe how the infrastructure at the ccc and performance sites will facilitate the efficient operation of the proposed multi-site clinical trial. if applicable, discuss any community participatory agreements and/or stakeholder agreements to support the protocol.other attachments: the following attachments marked as "required" must be provided, or the application will not be reviewed:1. trial management plan (required): a description of how the proposed trial will be managed must be provided as an attachment using the filename "trial management plan.pdf" and may not exceed 5 pages. describe the strategy that will be used throughout the project to ensure that management activities of the clinical trial are performed including directly supporting the needs of scientific study leadership to identify barriers, make timely responses, and optimize the allocation of limited resources to meet pre-defined study objectives. this description should include:in summary, the trial management plan should provide sufficient detail to demonstrate the ability to achieve the goals of the clinical trial on-budget and on-time and to successfully manage and mitigate risks.2. clinical trial research experience (cte) (required):applicants must provide a table listing the characteristics of trials that demonstrate experience from key personnel in trial coordination in the last 5 years. the table must be provided as an attachment called "clinical trial research experience.pdf" and may not exceed 3 pages.the table columns should include:column a: clinical study title column b: applicant's role in the study column c: a brief description of the study design column d: planned enrollment column e: actual enrollment column f: number of sites column g: whether the studies were completed on schedule or not column h: publication reference(s)3. plan for enhancing diverse perspectives (pedp) (required):a summary of strategies to advance the scientific and technical merit of the proposed project through expanded inclusivity must be provided as an attachment using the file name “pedp.pdf”. the pedp attachment may not exceed 1 page. the pedp should provide a holistic and integrated view of how enhancing diverse perspectives is viewed and supported throughout the application and can incorporate elements with relevance to any review criteria (significance, investigator(s), innovation, approach, and environment) as appropriate. where possible, applicant(s) should align their description with these required elements within the research strategy section. the pedp will vary depending on the scientific aims, expertise required, the environment and performance site(s), as well as how the project aims are structured. the pedp should be developed in collaboration with the dcc. the pedp may be no more than 1-page in length. examples of items that advance inclusivity in research and may be part of the pedp can include, but are not limited to:4. community-engagement plan(required):a description of how the proposed trial addresses community engagement must be provided as an attachment using the filename "community-engagement plan.pdf" and may not exceed 1 page. an approach that emphasizes collaboration with community partners, leaders, and knowledge holders, leveraging community resources and local service delivery and/or settings to address the needs of multiple stakeholders is encouraged. additionally, approaches based on models and or principles such as those used in conducting community-based participatory research (cbpr) are encouraged whenever feasible and appropriate. discussion of engagement with different types of institutions and organizations (e.g., research-intensive, undergraduate-focused, minority-serving, community-based) is strongly encouraged. as appropriate, plans may include a community and scientific advisory board that targets community representation and scientists not directly involved in the project.5. network description (optional):a network description plan is optional and should only be provided as an attachment using the filename "network description.pdf" if the proposed clinical trial is to be conducted using the infrastructure of an existing network. this attachment may not exceed 6 pages and should include the following description:all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.the pd(s)/pi(s) of the clinical trial must be experienced in the conduct of multi-center clinical trials including success in meeting milestones and timelines, and have expertise in the content area of the proposed clinical trial. the experience of each pd/pi and all key personnel must be carefully documented, and roles and responsibilities must be well-defined. in addition, the responsibilities and authority of each pd/pi must be specified. the application must ensure that a multidisciplinary team of appropriate personnel (clinical trialist, clinician, project manager, study coordinator(s), etc.) are proposed at the contributing institutions to facilitate the implementation of all aspects of the clinical trial, including recruitment of subjects, design/implementation of the trial protocol, and coordination of roles/responsibilities of the ccc leadership. applicants must include personnel and corresponding biographical sketches for the ccc only. all key personnel who are major scientific contributors to the study must provide an nih biosketch whether or not they are budgeted. the pd/pi (or multi-pds/pis) for the ccc cannot be key personnel on the dcc application.r&r budgetall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.this application must include only its own budget, including any subcontract budgets associated with it. the application must provide detailed annual budgets that will enable the ccc to meet its milestones. in the budget justification, provide the detailed budget needs (per year for each site and total) and an implementation and cost management plan (e.g., capitation). include costs associated with community engagement activities (e.g., community advisory board(s), infrastructure needs), as applicable. do not include budget support for the data safety monitoring board (dsmb). budget support for the dsmb should be included in the collaborative dcc application budget only. any cores (e.g., economics/quality of life) must be a subcontract to either the ccc or dcc. separate itemized budgets must be prepared for each subcontract and/or for each collaborating center or core. if parts of the costs of the trial are to be provided by sources other than nhlbi, these contributions must be presented in detail in the budget justification. third party support of the proposed research activity (if approved) will be incorporated as a specific term and condition in the notice of award. if the third party support ceases and the trial is no longer tenable without the third party support, a close-out plan may be requested. applicants are reminded that although cost share is not required, if these types of costs are included in the research application and peer reviewed, it is expected that these costs will not be covered by nhlbi.include budget support for personnel to travel to an annual in-person steering committee meeting and/or other meeting of investigators and nhlbi program staff to be held in the washington, d.c. area.include budget support for publication, dissemination of results, and data sharing.budgets should request only the costs that will be required for the activities to be performed in a given year. generally, the nhlbi expects the requested costs in year 1 (ug3) to be lower than in the following years, depending on recruitment targets. it is also expected that the ccc budget will be lower in the final year.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.other plan(s):note: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023, the data management and sharing plan will be attached in the other plan(s) attachment in forms-h and subsequent application forms packages. for due dates on or before january 24, 2023, the data sharing plan and genomic data sharing plan gds) will continue to be attached in the resource sharing plan attachment in forms-g application forms packages.all applicants planning research (funded or conducted in whole or in part by nih) that results in the generation of scientific data are required to comply with the instructions for the data management and sharing plan. all applications, regardless of the amount of direct costs requested for any one year, must address a data management and sharing plan.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed, with the following additional instructions:research strategy:the research strategy must present an overview of the state of the science, current status and relevance of the trial, a detailed discussion of the specific protocol, and the approach to data collection. provide a brief description of study research objectives.the following criteria must be addressed:significance: the significance of the proposed clinical trial and importance of the question must be clearly stated.it is particularly important to provide a discussion of the evidence supporting equipoise. the application should make clear the need for and timeliness of the study with emphasis on how the results will address an evidence gap and therefore advance science. include a description of how results will impact health or clinical care. a discussion of the costs and benefits of the study should be included for evaluation of the trial's significance.innovation: explain how the application challenges and seeks to shift current research or clinical practice paradigms.approach: the research approach section should include a description of the supporting data and the experimental approach.supporting data: describe the formative clinical studies (including any pilot studies) that are the basis for the proposed clinical trial. include other research as appropriate to demonstrate that the approach chosen is justified. if the clinical trial is phase iii, include relevant data used to determine that the proposed trial includes adequate numbers of subgroups of participants to allow for separate and adequately powered analyses. conceptualization and planning must have progressed to a stage sufficient to allow for an overall assessment of the likelihood of the success of the trial.experimental approach: include critical feature cores of conducting the clinical trial that are not already submitted as part of the phs human subjects and clinical trials information form, including but not limited to, the following experimental approach items:core milestonespropose and justify milestones that will be subject to peer-review. a milestone is defined as a scheduled event in the project timeline that signifies the completion of a major project stage or activity. milestones must be relevant, measurable, results-focused and time-bound, and should address timing of overall recruitment/enrollment and retention goals. the milestones mustaddress accrual goals for women, minorities, and individuals of all ages, including children and older adults, and any other identified requirements for completion of the approved research. milestones must be proposed for both the ug3 and uh3 phases. for the uh3 phase, describe the milestones that will be met to address the specific aims and ensure the successful completion of the clinical trial and dissemination of its results.the core milestones of particular interest include, but are not limited to:core ug3 trial milestonescore uh3 trial milestonesletters of support: letters of support from clinicians or clinical department chairs whose support are necessary to the successful conduct of the trial should be provided and indicate that, and describe how, the trial is in equipoise and that the intervention(s) or control arm(s) tested are not known to be inferior to the range of practice (or usual care) at each site, in their community, and described in relevant standards of care. if partial funding is to be provided by sources other than nhlbi, provide letter(s) of support signed by an authorized organization representative (aor).resource sharing plan: individuals are required to comply with the instructions for the resource sharing plans as provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.the following modifications also apply:when involving human subjects research, clinical research, and/or nih-defined clinical trials (and when applicable, clinical trials research experience) follow all instructions for the phs human subjects and clinical trials information form in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, with the following additional instructions:if you answered “yes” to the question “are human subjects involved?” on the r&r other project information form, you must include at least one human subjects study record using the study record: phs human subjects and clinical trials information form or delayed onset study record.study record: phs human subjects and clinical trials informationall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.section 2 - study population characteristics2.1 conditions or focus of study the information provided for conditions or focus of study must be the same as that provided in the collaborating dcc application.2.5 recruitment and retention plan the recruitment and retention plan should address: 1) the expertise of the individual(s) responsible for screening, approaching and consenting potential participants; 2) engagement of patient advocacy groups; 3) the process for identification and screening of diverse study participants; 4) primary and back-up recruitment strategies (e.g., use of electronic health records); 5) participant retention and adherence strategies; 6) possible competition from other trials for study participants; 7) engagement of the clinical community(ies) that will play a critical role in the recruitment and retention; 8) recruitment of groups for cluster-randomized trials.provide a table of the recruiting sites and site pd/pis showing enrollment goals and number of potential participants available at each site.2.7 study timeline include a table or graph of the overall study timeline. this is expected to be a visual representation (such as a gantt chart) of core milestones and key project management activities. a narrative is not expected in this section.the ccc and dcc are expected to provide the same 2 study timelines in their respective application. each application should include a timeline for the first year of the trial (ug3 phase) and a separate timeline for subsequent years (uh3 phase). the study timelines should include core milestones that need to be met throughout the lifecycle of the clinical trial. the study timelines need to address the relevant components of the pedp. it is expected that the timelines will clearly indicate which subtasks are needed to reach the core milestones; and which subtasks will be performed by the ccc and which ones will be performed by the dcc. the period of time for the study duration is expected to be displayed in months and must include, but is not limited to, the following:(a) the study opens to enrollment (b) core milestones are met (c) subtasks needed to reach the core milestones (d) when final transfer of the data to the dcc will occur (e) database lock and analysis of the study data (f) submission of the primary study manuscript for publication.section 3 - protection and monitoring plans3.3 data and safety monitoring plan the information provided for the data and safety monitoring plan must be the same as that provided in the collaborating dcc application. describe the process that will be utilized to identify unanticipated problems and describe procedures for intervention discontinuation and stopping guidelines.3.5 overall structure of the study teaminclude a description of the following:section 4 - protocol synopsis4.1.a. detailed description describe the protocol to be followed in each arm of the trial. include a brief description of how the ccc will standardize and optimize adherence to the protocol at the sites. specify concomitant interventions, if applicable. describe the proposed experimental design including a discussion of the clinical trial design and the rationale for the particular design chosen (pragmatic, explanatory, cluster-randomized, adaptive, etc.).4.1.c interventions describe the rationale for the choice of the intervention including such specific information as dose, period of administration, choice of formulation, device specifications, and key characteristics of other forms of proposed approaches such as diagnostic test and behavioral interventions.4.3 statistical design and power include a brief statement indicating that the ccc has worked closely with the dcc to ensure that the number of expected participants, the expected effect size, the power, and the statistical methods (with respect to each outcome measure) have been adequately addressed. in addition, clearly state that the statistical design and power attachment is being submitted in its entirety as a part of the collaborating dcc application.4.7 dissemination plan the information provided for dissemination plan must be the same as that provided in the collaborating dcc application.delayed onset studynote: delayed onset does not apply to a study that can be described but will not start immediately (i.e., delayed start). all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.foreign institutionsforeign (non-u.s.) institutions must follow policies described in the nih grants policy statement, and procedures for foreign institutions described throughout the sf424 (r&r) application guide.3. unique entity identifier and system for award management (sam)see part 1. section iii.1 for information regarding the requirement for obtaining a unique entity identifier and for completing and maintaining active registrations in system for award management (sam), nato commercial and government entity (ncage) code (if applicable), era commons, and grants.govpart i. overview information contains information about key dates and times. applicants are encouraged to submit applications before the due date to ensure they have time to make any application corrections that might be necessary for successful submission. when a submission date falls on a weekend or federal holiday, the application deadline is automatically extended to the next business day.organizations must submit applications to grants.gov (the online portal to find and apply for grants across all federal agencies). applicants must then complete the submission process by tracking the status of the application in the era commons, nih’s electronic system for grants administration. nih and grants.gov systems check the application against many of the application instructions upon submission. errors must be corrected and a changed/corrected application must be submitted to grants.gov on or before the application due date and time. if a changed/corrected application is submitted after the deadline, the application will be considered late. applications that miss the due date and time are subjected to the nih policy on late application submission.each application of a collaborative set must be on-time. considerations for late applications that are based on the institution or pd/pi apply only to his/her individual application.applicants are responsible for viewing their application before the due date in the era commons to ensure accurate and successful submission.information on the submission process and a definition of on-time submission are provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.5. intergovernmental review (e.o. 12372)this initiative is not subject to intergovernmental review.all nih awards are subject to the terms and conditions, cost principles, and other considerations described in the nih grants policy statement.pre-award costs are allowable only as described in the nih grants policy statement.applications must be submitted electronically following the instructions described in the sf424 (r&r) application guide. paper applications will not be accepted.applicants must complete all required registrations before the application due date. section iii. eligibility information contains information about registration.for assistance with your electronic application or for more information on the electronic submission process, visit how to apply – application guide. if you encounter a system issue beyond your control that threatens your ability to complete the submission process on-time, you must follow the dealing with system issues guidance. for assistance with application submission, contact the application submission contacts in section vii.important reminders:all pd(s)/pi(s) must include their era commons id in the credential fieldof the senior/key person profile form. failure to register in the commons and to include a valid pd/pi commons id in the credential field will prevent the successful submission of an electronic application to nih. see section iii of this foa for information on registration requirements.the applicant organization must ensure that the unique entity identifier (uei) provided on the application is the same number used in the organization’s profile in the era commons and for the system for award management. additional information may be found in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.see more tips for avoiding common errors.upon receipt, applications will be evaluated for completeness and compliance with application instructions by the center for scientific review, nih. applications that are incomplete or non-compliant will not be reviewed. each application of a collaborative set must be complete and compliant.requests of $500,000 or more for direct costs in any yearapplicants requesting $500,000 or more in direct costs in any year (excluding consortium f&a) must contact a scientific/research contact at least 6 weeks before submitting the application and follow the policy on the acceptance for review of unsolicited applications that request $500,000 or more in direct costs as described in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.applicants are required to follow the instructions for post-submission materials, as described in the policy. any instructions provided here are in addition to the instructions in the policy.1. criterianote: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023, the data sharing plan and genomic data sharing plan (gds) as part of the resource sharing plan will not be evaluated at time of review.only the review criteria described below will be considered in the review process. applications submitted to the nih in support of the nih mission are evaluated for scientific and technical merit through the nih peer review system.for this particular announcement, note the following: reviewers will consider the overall feasibility of the project and whether the clinical trial will answer a key scientific question and be completed on time and within the proposed budget.a proposed clinical trial application may include study design, methods, and intervention that are not by themselves innovative but address important questions or unmet needs. additionally, the results of the clinical trial may indicate that further clinical development of the intervention is unwarranted or lead to new avenues of scientific investigation.overall impactreviewers will provide an overall impact score to reflect their assessment of the likelihood for the project to exert a sustained, powerful influence on the research field(s) involved, in consideration of the following review criteria and additional review criteria (as applicable for the project proposed).scored review criteriareviewers will consider each of the review criteria below in the determination of scientific merit, and give a separate score for each. an application does not need to be strong in all categories to be judged likely to have major scientific impact. for example, a project that by its nature is not innovative may be essential to advance a field.significancedoes the project address an important problem or a critical barrier to progress in the field? is the prior research that serves as the key support for the proposed project rigorous? if the aims of the project are achieved, how will scientific knowledge, technical capability, and/or clinical practice be improved? how will successful completion of the aims change the concepts, methods, technologies, treatments, services, or preventative interventions that drive this field?specific to this foa:are the scientific rationale and need for a clinical trial to test the proposed hypothesis or intervention well supported by preliminary data, clinical and/or preclinical studies, or information in the literature or knowledge of biological mechanisms? for trials focusing on clinical or public health endpoints, is this clinical trial necessary for testing the safety, efficacy or effectiveness of an intervention that could lead to a change in clinical practice, community behaviors or health care policy? for trials focusing on mechanistic, behavioral, physiological, biochemical, or other biomedical endpoints, is this trial needed to advance scientific understanding?investigator(s)are the pd(s)/pi(s), collaborators, and other researchers well suited to the project? if early stage investigators or those in the early stages of independent careers, do they have appropriate experience and training? if established, have they demonstrated an ongoing record of accomplishments that have advanced their field(s)? if the project is collaborative or multi-pd/pi, do the investigators have complementary and integrated expertise; are their leadership approach, governance and organizational structure appropriate for the project?specific to this foa:with regard to the proposed leadership for the project, do the pd/pi(s) and key personnel have the expertise, experience, and ability to organize, manage and implement the proposed clinical trial and meet milestones and timelines? do they have appropriate expertise in study coordination, data management and statistics? for a multicenter trial, is the organizational structure appropriate and does the application identify a core of potential center investigators and staffing for a coordinating center?innovationdoes the application challenge and seek to shift current research or clinical practice paradigms by utilizing novel theoretical concepts, approaches or methodologies, instrumentation, or interventions? are the concepts, approaches or methodologies, instrumentation, or interventions novel to one field of research or novel in a broad sense? is a refinement, improvement, or new application of theoretical concepts, approaches or methodologies, instrumentation, or interventions proposed?specific to this foa:does the design/research plan include innovative elements, as appropriate, that enhance its sensitivity, potential for information or potential to advance scientific knowledge or clinical practice?approachare the overall strategy, methodology, and analyses well-reasoned and appropriate to accomplish the specific aims of the project? have the investigators included plans to address weaknesses in the rigor of prior research that serves as the key support for the proposed project? have the investigators presented strategies to ensure a robust and unbiased approach, as appropriate for the work proposed? are potential problems, alternative strategies, and benchmarks for success presented? if the project is in the early stages of development, will the strategy establish feasibility and will particularly risky aspects be managed? have the investigators presented adequate plans to address relevant biological variables, such as sex, for studies in vertebrate animals or human subjects?if the project involves human subjects and/or nih-defined clinical research, are the plans to address 1) the protection of human subjects from research risks, and 2) inclusion (or exclusion) of individuals on the basis of sex/gender, race, and ethnicity, as well as the inclusion or exclusion of individuals of all ages (including children and older adults), justified in terms of the scientific goals and research strategy proposed?specific to this foahow strong is the approach of the ccc to collaborate with the dcc on supporting the plan for enhancing diverse perspectives (pedp) and the community engagement plan?does the application adequately address the following, if applicablestudy designis the study design justified and appropriate to address primary and secondary outcome variable(s)/endpoints that will be clear, informative and relevant to the hypothesis being tested? is the scientific rationale/premise of the study based on previously well-designed preclinical and/or clinical research? given the methods used to assign participants and deliver interventions, is the study design adequately powered to answer the research question(s), test the proposed hypothesis/hypotheses, and provide interpretable results? is the trial appropriately designed to conduct the research efficiently? are the study populations (size, gender, age, demographic group), proposed intervention arms/dose, and duration of the trial, appropriate and well justified?are potential ethical issues adequately addressed? is the process for obtaining informed consent or assent appropriate? is the eligible population available? are the plans for recruitment outreach, enrollment, retention, handling dropouts, missed visits, and losses to follow-up appropriate to ensure robust data collection? are the planned recruitment timelines feasible and is the plan to monitor accrual adequate? has the need for randomization (or not), masking (if appropriate), controls, and inclusion/exclusion criteria been addressed? are differences addressed, if applicable, in the intervention effect due to sex/gender and race/ethnicity?are the plans to standardize, assure quality of, and monitor adherence to, the trial protocol and data collection or distribution guidelines appropriate? is there a plan to obtain required study agent(s)? does the application propose to use existing available resources, as applicable?data management and statistical analysisare planned analyses and statistical approach appropriate for the proposed study design and methods used to assign participants and deliver interventions? are the procedures for data management and quality control of data adequate at clinical site(s) or at center laboratories, as applicable? have the methods for standardization of procedures for data management to assess the effect of the intervention and quality control been addressed? is there a plan to complete data analysis within the proposed period of the award?environmentwill the scientific environment in which the work will be done contribute to the probability of success? are the institutional support, equipment and other physical resources available to the investigators adequate for the project proposed? will the project benefit from unique features of the scientific environment, subject populations, or collaborative arrangements?specific to this foaif proposed, are the administrative, data coordinating, enrollment and laboratory/testing centers, appropriate for the trial proposed?does the application adequately address the capability and ability to conduct the trial at the proposed site(s) or centers? are the plans to add or drop enrollment centers, as needed, appropriate?if international site(s) is/are proposed, does the application adequately address the complexity of executing the clinical trial?if multi-sites/centers, is there evidence of the ability of the individual site or center to: (1) enroll the proposed numbers; (2) adhere to the protocol; (3) collect and transmit data in an accurate and timely fashion; and, (4) operate within the proposed organizational structure?additional review criteriaas applicable for the project proposed, reviewers will evaluate the following additional items while determining scientific and technical merit, and in providing an overall impact score, but will not give separate scores for these items.study timelineis the study timeline described in detail, taking into account start-up activities, the anticipated rate of enrollment, and planned follow-up assessment? is the projected timeline feasible and well justified? does the project incorporate efficiencies and utilize existing resources (e.g., ctsas, practice-based research networks, electronic medical records, administrative database, or patient registries) to increase the efficiency of participant enrollment and data collection, as appropriate?are potential challenges and corresponding solutions discussed (e.g., strategies that can be implemented in the event of enrollment shortfalls)?core milestonesprotections for human subjectsfor research that involves human subjects but does not involve one of the categories of research that are exempt under 45 cfr part 46, the committee will evaluate the justification for involvement of human subjects and the proposed protections from research risk relating to their participation according to the following five review criteria: 1) risk to subjects, 2) adequacy of protection against risks, 3) potential benefits to the subjects and others, 4) importance of the knowledge to be gained, and 5) data and safety monitoring for clinical trials.for research that involves human subjects and meets the criteria for one or more of the categories of research that are exempt under 45 cfr part 46, the committee will evaluate: 1) the justification for the exemption, 2) human subjects involvement and characteristics, and 3) sources of materials. for additional information on review of the human subjects section, please refer to the guidelines for the review of human subjects.inclusion of women, minorities, and individuals across the lifespanwhen the proposed project involves human subjects and/or nih-defined clinical research, the committee will evaluate the proposed plans for the inclusion (or exclusion) of individuals on the basis of sex/gender, race, and ethnicity, as well as the inclusion (or exclusion) of individuals of all ages (including children and older adults) to determine if it is justified in terms of the scientific goals and research strategy proposed. for additional information on review of the inclusion section, please refer to the guidelines for the review of inclusion in clinical research.vertebrate animalsthe committee will evaluate the involvement of live vertebrate animals as part of the scientific assessment according to the following criteria: (1) description of proposed procedures involving animals, including species, strains, ages, sex, and total number to be used; (2) justifications for the use of animals versus alternative models and for the appropriateness of the species proposed; (3) interventions to minimize discomfort, distress, pain and injury; and (4) justification for euthanasia method if not consistent with the avma guidelines for the euthanasia of animals. reviewers will assess the use of chimpanzees as they would any other application proposing the use of vertebrate animals. for additional information on review of the vertebrate animals section, please refer to the worksheet for review of the vertebrate animal section.biohazardsreviewers will assess whether materials or procedures proposed are potentially hazardous to research personnel and/or the environment, and if needed, determine whether adequate protection is proposed.resubmissionsfor resubmissions, the committee will evaluate the application as now presented, taking into consideration the responses to comments from the previous scientific review group and changes made to the project.renewalsnot applicablerevisionsfor revisions, the committee will consider the appropriateness of the proposed expansion of the scope of the project. if the revision application relates to a specific line of investigation presented in the original application that was not recommended for approval by the committee, then the committee will consider whether the responses to comments from the previous scientific review group are adequate and whether substantial changes are clearly evident.note: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023, the data sharing plan and genomic data sharing plan (gds) as part of the resource sharing plan will not be evaluated at time of review.as applicable for the project proposed, reviewers will consider each of the following items, but will not give scores for these items, and should not consider them in providing an overall impact score.applications from foreign organizationsreviewers will assess whether the project presents special opportunities for furthering research programs through the use of unusual talent, resources, populations, or environmental conditions that exist in other countries and either are not readily available in the united states or augment existing u.s. resources.select agent researchreviewers will assess the information provided in this section of the application, including 1) the select agent(s) to be used in the proposed research, 2) the registration status of all entities where select agent(s) will be used, 3) the procedures that will be used to monitor possession use and transfer of select agent(s), and 4) plans for appropriate biosafety, biocontainment, and security of the select agent(s).resource sharing plansreviewers will comment on whether the following resource sharing plans, or the rationale for not sharing the following types of resources, are reasonable: (1) data sharing plan; (2) sharing model organisms; and (3) genomic data sharing plan (gds).authentication of key biological and/or chemical resources:for projects involving key biological and/or chemical resources, reviewers will comment on the brief plans proposed for identifying and ensuring the validity of those resources.budget and period of supportreviewers will consider whether the budget and the requested period of support are fully justified and reasonable in relation to the proposed research.2. review and selection processapplications will be evaluated for scientific and technical merit by (an) appropriate scientific review group(s) convened by nhlbi, in accordance with nih peer review policy and procedures, using the stated review criteria. assignment to a scientific review group will be shown in the era commons.as part of the scientific peer review, all applications will receive a written critique.applications may undergo a selection process in which only those applications deemed to have the highest scientific and technical merit (generally the top half of applications under review) will be discussed and assigned an overall impact score.applications will be assigned on the basis of established phs referral guidelines to the appropriate nih institute or center. applications will compete for available funds with all other recommended applications submitted in response to this foa. following initial peer review, recommended applications will receive a second level of review by the appropriate national advisory council or board. the following will be considered in making funding decisions:3. anticipated announcement and award datesafter the peer review of the application is completed, the pd/pi will be able to access his or her summary statement (written critique) via the era commons. refer to part 1 for dates for peer review, advisory council review, and earliest start date.information regarding the disposition of applications is available in the nih grants policy statement.1. award noticesif the application is under consideration for funding, nih will request "just-in-time" information from the applicant as described in the nih grants policy statement.a formal notification in the form of a notice of award (noa) will be provided to the applicant organization for successful applications. the noa signed by the grants management officer is the authorizing document and will be sent via email to the recipient's business official.recipients must comply with any funding restrictions described in section iv.5. funding restrictions. selection of an application for award is not an authorization to begin performance. any costs incurred before receipt of the noa are at the recipient's risk. these costs may be reimbursed only to the extent considered allowable pre-award costs.any application awarded in response to this foa will be subject to terms and conditions found on the award conditions and information for nih grants website. this includes any recent legislation and policy applicable to awards that is highlighted on this website.individual awards are based on the application submitted to, and as approved by, the nih and are subject to the ic-specific terms and conditions identified in the noa.clinicaltrials.gov: if an award provides for one or more clinical trials. by law (title viii, section 801 of public law 110-85), the "responsible party" must register and submit results information for certain “applicable clinical trials” on the clinicaltrials.gov protocol registration and results system information website (https://register.clinicaltrials.gov). nih expects registration and results reporting of all trials whether required under the law or not. for more information, see https://grants.nih.gov/policy/clinical-trials/reporting/index.htminstitutional review board or independent ethics committee approval: recipient institutions must ensure that all protocols are reviewed by their irb or iec. to help ensure the safety of participants enrolled in nih-funded studies, the recipient must provide nih copies of documents related to all major changes in the status of ongoing protocols.data and safety monitoring requirements: the nih policy for data and safety monitoring requires oversight and monitoring of all nih-conducted or -supported human biomedical and behavioral intervention studies (clinical trials) to ensure the safety of participants and the validity and integrity of the data. further information concerning these requirements is found at http://grants.nih.gov/grants/policy/hs/data_safety.htm and in the application instructions (sf424 (r&r) and phs 398).investigational new drug or investigational device exemption requirements: consistent with federal regulations, clinical research projects involving the use of investigational therapeutics, vaccines, or other medical interventions (including licensed products and devices for a purpose other than that for which they were licensed) in humans under a research protocol must be performed under a food and drug administration (fda) investigational new drug (ind) or investigational device exemption (ide).2. administrative and national policy requirementsall nih grant and cooperative agreement awards include the nih grants policy statement as part of the noa. for these terms of award, see the nih grants policy statement part ii: terms and conditions of nih grant awards, subpart a: general and part ii: terms and conditions of nih grant awards, subpart b: terms and conditions for specific types of grants, recipients, and activities, including of note, but not limited to:if a recipient is successful and receives a notice of award, in accepting the award, the recipient agrees that any activities under the award are subject to all provisions currently in effect or implemented during the period of the award, other department regulations and policies in effect at the time of the award, and applicable statutory provisions.should the applicant organization successfully compete for an award, recipients of federal financial assistance (ffa) from hhs must administer their programs in compliance with federal civil rights laws that prohibit discrimination on the basis of race, color, national origin, disability, age and, in some circumstances, religion, conscience, and sex (including gender identity , sexual orientation, and pregnancy). this includes ensuring programs are accessible to persons with limited english proficiency and persons with disabilities. the hhs office for civil rights provides guidance on complying with civil rights laws enforced by hhs. please see https://www.hhs.gov/civil-rights/for-providers/provider-obligations/index.html and https://www.hhs.gov/civil-rights/for-individuals/nondiscrimination/index.htmlhhs recognizes that research projects are often limited in scope for many reasons that are nondiscriminatory, such as the principal investigator’s scientific interest, funding limitations, recruitment requirements, and other considerations. thus, criteria in research protocols that target or exclude certain populations are warranted where nondiscriminatory justifications establish that such criteria are appropriate with respect to the health or safety of the subjects, the scientific study design, or the purpose of the research. for additional guidance regarding how the provisions apply to nih grant programs, please contact the scientific/research contact that is identified in section vii under agency contacts of this foa.please contact the hhs office for civil rights for more information about obligations and prohibitions under federal civil rights laws at https://www.hhs.gov/ocr/about-us/contact-us/index.html or call 1-800-368-1019 or tdd 1-800-537-7697.in accordance with the statutory provisions contained in section 872 of the duncan hunter national defense authorization act of fiscal year 2009 (public law 110-417), nih awards will be subject to the federal awardee performance and integrity information system (fapiis) requirements. fapiis requires federal award making officials to review and consider information about an applicant in the designated integrity and performance system (currently fapiis) prior to making an award. an applicant, at its option, may review information in the designated integrity and performance systems accessible through fapiis and comment on any information about itself that a federal agency previously entered and is currently in fapiis. the federal awarding agency will consider any comments by the applicant, in addition to other information in fapiis, in making a judgement about the applicant’s integrity, business ethics, and record of performance under federal awards when completing the review of risk posed by applicants as described in 45 cfr part 75.205 and 2 cfr part 200.206 “federal awarding agency review of risk posed by applicants.” this provision will apply to all nih grants and cooperative agreements except fellowships.the following special terms of award are in addition to, and not in lieu of, otherwise applicable omb administrative guidelines, hhs grant administration regulations at 45 cfr part 75, 2 cfr part 200, and other hhs, and nih grant administration policies.the administrative and funding instrument used for this program will be the cooperative agreement, an “assistance” mechanism (rather than an “acquisition” mechanism), in which substantial nih programmatic involvement with the awardees is anticipated during the performance of the activities. under the cooperative agreement, the nih purpose is to support and stimulate the recipients’ activities by involvement in and otherwise working jointly with the award recipients in a partnership role; it is not to assume direction, prime responsibility, or a dominant role in the activities. consistent with this concept, the dominant role and prime responsibility resides with the awardees for the project as a whole, although specific tasks and activities may be shared among the awardees and the nih as defined below.the pd(s)/pi(s) will have primary responsibility for:the awardee pd/pi will have primary and lead responsibilities for the project as a whole, including research design and protocol development, participant recruitment and follow-up, data collection, quality control, interim data and safety monitoring, final data analysis and interpretation, preparation of publications, as well as collaborations with other awardees.upon completion of the project, awardees are expected to put their data into the public domain and/or make them available to other investigators, according to the approved plan for making data and materials available to the scientific community (see "areas of joint responsibility" below). third party support of the proposed research activity (if proposed, accepted and approved) will be incorporated as a special award condition in the noa. awardees will be responsible for ensuring third party compliance. if the third party support is no longer available and not replaceable in a timely fashion, negotiated phase-out of the award may occur. cost share is not a requirement for this program; however, if cost share is proposed, peer reviewed and accepted by nhlbi it will become a special award condition in the noa.awardees will retain custody of and have primary rights to the data and software developed under these awards, subject to government rights of access consistent with current dhhs, phs, and nih policies.nih staff have substantial programmatic involvement that is above and beyond the normal stewardship role in awards, as described below:the nhlbi project scientist will assist with development of research protocols, monitor patient recruitment and study progress, ensure disclosure of conflicts of interest, and ensure adherence to nhlbi policies. the nhlbi project scientist will serve on the steering committee and other study committees, when appropriate, as a non-voting member. the nhlbi project scientist may work with awardees on issues coming before the steering committee such as recruitment, protocol development, follow-up, quality control, adherence to protocol, possible changes to the protocol, interim data and safety monitoring, final data analysis and interpretation, preparation of publications, and development of solutions to major problems, such as insufficient participant enrollment. in addition to the project scientist, a separate nhlbi program official will be responsible for the normal program stewardship of the cooperative agreement, and will be in the notice of award. however, nhlbi may elect to have a dual-role approach where a single individual may act as both the nhlbi project scientist and program official. final decision-making authority on matters of budgetary and funding actions, grants management actions, and management of intellectual property issues is assigned to nhlbi staff other than the project scientist. the responsibility for final decision making may reside with senior institute management, separate organizational components and/or oversight committees. because it is anticipated that the program official will participate in activities that rise to a level of involvement (i.e., additional role as project scientist) that results in conflicts of interest, for example, co-publication, other staff members such as direct line supervisors and/or other senior nhlbi program management staff will serve as agency program officials and will be responsible for the normal scientific and programmatic stewardship of the award. the nhlbi policy on authorship and manuscript review of nhlbi sponsored extramural research protects against conflicts of interest with the program officer.an independent data and safety monitoring board (dsmb) will be established to oversee participant safety in the clinical trial and provide overall monitoring of interim data and safety issues. as part of the collaborative activities under this cooperative agreement, the nhlbi will collaborate with the awardees to appoint and/or agree upon a single dsmb for monitoring the clinical trial. the dsmb may be appointed by the nhlbi, or with the approval of nhlbi, the dsmb could be an institutional dsmb. at the first meeting in the ug3 phase, the dsmb will review the awardee’s protocol and potentially recommend modifications. subsequently, the dsmb will monitor and review recruitment, adverse events, data quality, outcome data, and overall awardee performance. the dsmb has the responsibility to review interim data and final data, and recommend whether the protocol should be modified, and, at each meeting, whether the study should be continued or should be terminated early. an nhlbi scientist other than the nhlbi program official or project scientist will serve as executive secretary to the board. because the dsmb serves as an independent group advisory to the nhlbi, study investigators shall not communicate with dsmb members regarding study issues, except as authorized by the board's executive secretary.the nhlbi reserves the right to phase-out or curtail the study (or an individual award) in the event of: (a) failure to develop or implement a mutually agreeable protocol, (b) substantial shortfall in subject recruitment milestones, core milestones mutually agreed upon by the recipient organization and pd/pi and the nhlbi, consortium participation and collaboration with other awardees, (c) substantive changes in the agreed-upon methodologies and tools with which nih cannot concur, (d) human subject ethical issues that may dictate a premature termination, or (e) results that substantially diminish the scientific value of study continuation.areas of joint responsibility include:the authorized organizational representative (aor) is responsible for communicating progress on achievement of each milestone for the collaborative project to the nhlbi grants and program officers listed on the notice of award. award continuation, even during the period recommended for support, is conditional upon satisfactory progress. if, at any time, recruitment, as defined in the nhlbi accrual of human subjects (milestones) policy, falls significantly below projections, or core milestones mutually agreed upon by the recipient organization and pd/pi and the nhlbi are not met, the nhlbi may consider ending support and negotiating an orderly phase-out of the award. nhlbi grants management and program officers will closely monitor progress at all trial stages including milestones, accrual, and safety.awardees will retain custody of and have primary rights to their data developed under these awards, subject to government rights of access consistent with current hhs, phs, and nih policies. meetings and calls may be arranged by nhlbi staff to promote sharing of information among investigators regarding state of science technologies, data management techniques, analytical strategies and tools, and data sharing. support or other involvement of industry or any other third party in the study (e.g., participation by the third party; involvement of study resources or citing the name of the study or nhlbi support; or special access to study results, data, findings or resources) may be advantageous and appropriate. however, except for licensing of patents or copyrights, support or involvement of any third party will occur only following notification of and concurrence by nhlbi.nhlbi will partner with the pd/pi to ensure that the dataset preparation is congruent with requirements for nhlbi data repository datasets and associated documentation for submission to the biological specimen and data repository information coordinating center (biolincc) and the nhlbi policy for data sharing from clinical trials and epidemiological studies, and is in accordance with the guidelines for nhlbi data set preparation.study investigators are strongly encouraged to publish and to release publicly and disseminate results, tools, resources and other products of the study, in accordance with the study protocols and governance. it is expected that all methods, analyses, software, and algorithms will be made available in a timely manner to the scientific community. a plan for dissemination of study results will be developed by the awardee pd/pi in collaboration with the nih project scientist and incorporated as a special term and condition in the noa. within 3 years of the end of the period of nhlbi support for the project, data not previously released and other study materials or products not previously distributed are expected to be made available to individuals who are not study investigators in accordance with the nhlbi data sharing policydispute resolution:any disagreement that may arise in scientific or programmatic matters (within the scope of the award) between award recipients and the nih may be brought to dispute resolution. a dispute resolution panel composed will be convened. it will have three members: 1) a designee selected by the executive committee (with the nhlbi member absent from the discussion) or by the individual awardee in the event of an individual disagreement; 2) a second member selected by nih; and 3) the third designee with expertise in the relevant area selected by the other two. this special dispute resolution does not alter the awardees' right to appeal an adverse action that is otherwise appealable in accordance with phs regulations at 42 cfr part 50, subpart d and hhs regulation at 45 cfr part 16.multiple pd/pi dispute resolutionif a conflict develops between pd(s)/pi(s) in a multiple pd/pi application, the following procedures will apply:the departmental administrators representing the pd(s)/pi(s) shall meet and attempt in good faith to settle any dispute, claim or controversy arising out of or relating to the interpretation, performance or breach of this disagreement. however, if the departmental administrators fail to reach resolution in 30 days then nih may invoke dispute resolution procedures as described in the above paragraph.data management and sharingnote: the nih policy for data management and sharing is effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023.consistent with the nih policy for data management and sharing, when data management and sharing is applicable to the award, recipients will be required to adhere to the data management and sharing requirements as outlined in the nih grants policy statement. upon the approval of a data management and sharing plan, it is required for recipients to implement the plan as described.3. reportingwhen multiple years are involved, recipients will be required to submit the research performance progress report (rppr) annually and financial statements as required in the nih grants policy statement.a final rppr, invention statement, and the expenditure data portion of the federal financial report are required for closeout of an award, as described in the nih grants policy statement. nih foas outline intended research goals and objectives. post award, nih will review and measure performance based on the details and outcomes that are shared within the rppr, as described at 45 cfr part 75.301 and 2 cfr part 200.301.the federal funding accountability and transparency act of 2006 (transparency act), includes a requirement for recipients of federal grants to report information about first-tier subawards and executive compensation under federal assistance awards issued in fy2011 or later. all recipients of applicable nih grants and cooperative agreements are required to report to the federal subaward reporting system (fsrs) available at www.fsrs.gov on all subawards over $25,000. see the nih grants policy statement for additional information on this reporting requirement.in accordance with the regulatory requirements provided at 45 cfr 75.113 and appendix xii to 45 cfr part 75, recipients that have currently active federal grants, cooperative agreements, and procurement contracts from all federal awarding agencies with a cumulative total value greater than $10,000,000 for any period of time during the period of performance of a federal award, must report and maintain the currency of information reported in the system for award management (sam) about civil, criminal, and administrative proceedings in connection with the award or performance of a federal award that reached final disposition within the most recent five-year period. the recipient must also make semiannual disclosures regarding such proceedings. proceedings information will be made publicly available in the designated integrity and performance system (currently fapiis). this is a statutory requirement under section 872 of public law 110-417, as amended (41 u.s.c. 2313). as required by section 3010 of public law 111-212, all information posted in the designated integrity and performance system on or after april 15, 2011, except past performance reviews required for federal procurement contracts, will be publicly available. full reporting requirements and procedures are found in appendix xii to 45 cfr part 75 – award term and conditions for recipient integrity and performance matters.we encourage inquiries concerning this funding opportunity and welcome the opportunity to answer questions from potential applicants.era service desk (questions regarding assist, era commons, application errors and warnings, documenting system problems that threaten submission by the due date, and post-submission issues)finding help online: http://grants.nih.gov/support/ (preferred method of contact) telephone: 301-402-7469 or 866-504-9552 (toll free)general grants information (questions regarding application instructions, application processes, and nih grant resources) email: grantsinfo@nih.gov (preferred method of contact) telephone: 301-637-3015grants.gov customer support (questions regarding grants.gov registration and workspace) contact center telephone: 800-518-4726 email: support@grants.govdivision of blood diseases and resources nancy difronzo, phd national heart, lung, and blood institute (nhlbi) telephone: 301-435-0065 email: difronzon@nhlbi.nih.govdivision of cardiovascular sciences yves rosenberg, md, mph national heart, lung, and blood institute (nhlbi) telephone: 301-435-0550 email: rosenbey@nhlbi.nih.govdivision of lung diseasesmarishka k. brown, phd national heart, lung, and blood institute (nhlbi) telephone: 301-435-0199 email: marishka.brown@nih.govcenter for translation research and implementation sciencexinzhi zhang, md, phd, face, frsm national heart, lung, and blood institute (nhlbi) telephone: 301-435-6865 email: xinzhi.zhang@nih.govkeary a. cope, phd national heart, lung, and blood institute (nhlbi) telephone: 301-435-0287 email: copeka@nhlbi.nih.govtammi simpson national heart, lung, and blood institute (nhlbi) telephone: 301-827-8051 email: tammi.simpson@nih.govrecently issued trans-nih policy notices may affect your application submission. a full list of policy notices published by nih is provided in the nih guide for grants and contracts. all awards are subject to the terms and conditions, cost principles, and other considerations described in the nih grants policy statement.awards are made under the authorization of sections 301 and 405 of the public health service act as amended (42 usc 241 and 284) and under federal regulations 2 cfr part 200, 42 cfr part 52 and 45 cfr part 75.weekly toc for this announcement nih funding opportunities and noticesnote: for help accessing pdf, rtf, ms word, excel, powerpoint, audio or video files, see help downloading files.