Population Assessment of Tobacco and Health (PATH) Study Biospecimen Access (X01)
https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/pa-files/PAR-21-044.html
national institutes of health (nih)national institute on drug abuse (nida)x01 resource access awardreissue of par-17-458nonesee section iii. 3. additional information on eligibility.93.279the population assessment of tobacco and health (path) study provides the scientific community with biospecimens (urine, plasma, serum, and genomic dna) and related research data on behaviors, attitudes, biomarkers and health outcomes associated with tobacco use in the u.s. this opportunity allows investigators to apply for access to the biospecimens from the path study. information about the path study and this resource may be found on the path study series page at the university of michigan’s national addiction & hiv data archive program (nahdap) website, part of the inter-university consortium for political and social research’s (icpsr) website.not applicableapril 30, 2021, october 29, 2021, april 29, 2022, october 31, 2022, april 28, 2023, october 31, 2023.all applications are due by 5:00 pm local time of applicant organization. all types of non-aids applications allowed for this funding opportunity announcement are due on the listed date(s). applicants are encouraged to apply early to allow adequate time to make any corrections to errors found in the application during the submission process by the due date.all applications are due by 5:00 pm local time of applicant organization. all types of non-aids applications allowed for this funding opportunity announcement are due on the listed date(s).applicants are encouraged to apply early to allow adequate time to make any corrections to errors found in the application during the submission process by the due date.not applicable.july 2021, january 2022, july 2022, january 2023, july 2023, january 2024not applicableseptember 2021not applicableit is critical that applicants follow the instructions in the research (r) instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide,except where instructed to do otherwise (in this foa or in a notice from nih guide for grants and contracts ).conformance to all requirements (both in the application guide and the foa) is required and strictly enforced. applicants must read and follow all application instructions in the application guide as well as any program-specific instructions noted in section iv. when the program-specific instructions deviate from those in the application guide, follow the program-specific instructions.applications that do not comply with these instructions may be delayed or not accepted for review.there are several options available to submit your application through grants.gov to nih and department of health and human services partners. you must use one of these submission options to access the application forms for this opportunity.purposethis funding opportunity announcement (foa) allows investigators to apply for access to the population assessment of tobacco and health (path) study biospecimens for use in conducting tobacco-related research studies. the path study is a collaboration between the national institute on drug abuse (nida), national institutes of health (nih), and the center for tobacco products (ctp), u.s. food and drug administration (fda). it was launched in 2011 to inform fda's regulatory activities under the family smoking prevention and tobacco control act. the path study is an ongoing longitudinal cohort study on tobacco use behavior, attitudes and beliefs, and tobacco-related health outcomes. the path study is planned through 2024.the path study collects data from adults and youth. parents are also interviewed and their responses are appended to their youth’s record in the youth dataset. for the baseline wave (wave 1), the study sampled over 150,000 mailing addresses across the united states to create a national sample of tobacco users and non-users: over 32,000 adults and 13,000 youth. the number of cases varies from wave to wave.detailed information on the policies for obtaining path study biospecimens, types of biospecimens available, and the application and review processes may be found on the path study biospecimen access program page at the university of michigan’s national addiction & hiv data archive program (nahdap) website, part of the inter-university consortium for political and social research’s (icpsr) website. applicants should visit this website before applying for access to the path study biospecimens.backgroundthe family smoking prevention and tobacco control act (fsptca), signed by the president in june 2009, created the fda center for tobacco products (ctp) and granted it authority to regulate the manufacture, marketing, and distribution of cigarettes, cigarette tobacco, roll-your-own tobacco, and smokeless tobacco in order to protect public health. the law also gave fda the ability to regulate additional tobacco products, commonly referred to as “deeming” them through rulemaking. in 2016, fda finalized a rule that extends fda's regulatory authority to all tobacco products including electronic cigarettes or electronic nicotine delivery systems (ends), cigars, pipe tobacco, hookah tobacco, and other tobacco products such as nicotine gels. a full description of the fsptca can be found on fda’s website.the path study is a national cohort study designed to generate longitudinal epidemiologic data on tobacco use behaviors including patterns of use, attitudes, beliefs, exposures, and related health outcomes. the cohort is a household-based, nationally representative sample of approximately 46,000 participants. these include both youth (12 to 17 years) and adult (18 years and older) current users of a wide array of tobacco products, former tobacco product users, and nonusers. the participants were recruited from 156 geographical primary sampling units (psus) across the u.s. in which a psu is a county or group of counties. the data generated by the path study will contribute to the evidence base used to inform fda’s regulatory mission under the fsptca.the path study consists of four annual (waves 1 through 4) and three biennial (waves 5 through 7) waves of data and biospecimen collection. the first annual wave began in september 2013 and concluded in december 2014. waves 2 through 4 began in october of 2014, october of 2015, and december of 2016, respectively, and concluded approximately one year later. wave 5, the first biennial wave, began in december 2018 and concluded approximately one year later. wave 6 is expected to begin in december 2020. the multi-wave design allows for the longitudinal assessment of the participants’ patterns of use of tobacco products, tobacco exposures, health, and risks for disease.path study biospecimen and data resourcebiospecimens and questionnaire data are collected from participants during each of four annual waves (waves 1 to 4) and three subsequent biennial waves (waves 5 through 7). stored biospecimens available to researchers include urine, serum, plasma, and genomic dna. genomic data is only available for wave 1. detailed information on specimen availability is located on the path study biospecimen access program page. questionnaire data includes information on use of tobacco products and behaviors (addiction, cessation, relapse, etc.), exposures, attitudes, beliefs, knowledge, and health status. biospecimens from subsamples of path study participants, including tobacco product nonusers as well as a diverse mix of tobacco product users, were analyzed for biomarkers of potential harm and tobacco exposure. information about the numbers and types of biospecimens, questionnaire and biomarker data that are available to applicants is located on the nahdap website.research scopeinvestigators proposing meritorious and feasible studies consistent with path study objectives and/or research priorities for tobacco regulatory science will be given highest priority for access to path study biospecimens. studies that address other objectives that expand the knowledge of tobacco use and/or tobacco related health outcomes will also be considered but will be a lower priority.application procedures - biospecimen availabilityinterested applicants are required to contact the path study team at least five months in advance of the application submission deadlines to determine whether there is sufficient quantity of the biospecimens required for the proposed study. applications must include written confirmation from the path study team indicating sufficient numbers of biospecimens. the path study team should be contacted at pathstudybiospecimens@westat.com.for more information on the procedures to determine biospecimen availability, review the application procedures on the nahdap website.see section viii. other information for award authorities and regulations.other: a mechanism that is not a grant or cooperative agreement. examples include access to research resources or pre-applications.the oer glossary and the sf424 (r&r) application guide provide details on these application types. only those application types listed here are allowed for this foa.need help determining whether you are doing a clinical trial?the total number of projects granted access to biospecimens is dependent on the number of meritorious applications and the availability of biospecimens.not applicable; funds are not awarded via the x01 mechanism.the scope of the proposed project should determine the project period. the maximum project period is 5 years.nih grants policies as described in the nih grants policy statement will apply to the applications submitted and awards made from this foa.higher education institutionsthe following types of higher education institutions are always encouraged to apply for nih support as public or private institutions of higher education:nonprofits other than institutions of higher educationfor-profit organizationslocal governmentsfederal governmentsothernon-domestic (non-u.s.) entities (foreign institutions) are not eligible to apply.non-domestic (non-u.s.) components of u.s. organizations are not eligible to apply.foreign components, as defined in the nih grants policy statement, are not allowed.applicant organizationsapplicant organizations must complete and maintain the following registrations as described in the sf 424 (r&r) application guide to be eligible to apply for or receive an award. all registrations must be completed prior to the application being submitted. registration can take 6 weeks or more, so applicants should begin the registration process as soon as possible. the nih policy on late submission of grant applications states that failure to complete registrations in advance of a due date is not a valid reason for a late submission.program directors/principal investigators (pd(s)/pi(s))all pd(s)/pi(s) must have an era commons account. pd(s)/pi(s) should work with their organizational officials to either create a new account or to affiliate their existing account with the applicant organization in era commons. if the pd/pi is also the organizational signing official, they must have two distinct era commons accounts, one for each role. obtaining an era commons account can take up to 2 weeks.any individual(s) with the skills, knowledge, and resources necessary to carry out the proposed research as the program director(s)/principal investigator(s) (pd(s)/pi(s)) is invited to work with his/her organization to develop an application for support. individuals from underrepresented racial and ethnic groups as well as individuals with disabilities are always encouraged to apply for nih support.for institutions/organizations proposing multiple pds/pis, visit the multiple program director/principal investigator policy and submission details in the senior/key person profile (expanded) component of the sf424 (r&r) application guide.this foa does not require cost sharing as defined in the nih grants policy statement.applicant organizations may submit more than one application, provided that each application is scientifically distinct.the nih will not accept duplicate or highly overlapping applications under review at the same time. this means that the nih will not accept:the application forms package specific to this opportunity must be accessed through assist, grants.gov workspace or an institutional system-to-system solution. links to apply using assist or grants.gov workspace are available in part 1. overview information of this foa. see your administrative office for instructions if you plan to use an institutional system-to-system solution.all page limitations described in the sf424 application guide and the table of page limits must be followed.note: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023 a data management and sharing plan is not applicable for this foa.the following section supplements the instructions found in the sf424 (r&r) application guide and should be used for preparing an application to this foa.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.please follow these additional instructions as this is not an application for funding:total federal funds requested: enter $0total federal and non federal funds: enter $0estimated program income: enter $0.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.please follow these additional instructions:describe facilities where laboratory analyses will be done in facilities and other resources.describe instrumentation that will be used to conduct laboratory analyses in equipment.include the letter about the proposed study and written confirmation from the path study team indicating sufficient numbers of biospecimens in research & related other project information.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed, with the following additional instructions:research strategysignificanceexplain how the proposed use of biospecimens relates to path study objectives, and how results will inform the scientific community, public health policy and/or tobacco regulation.explain how the proposed project will improve scientific knowledge and technical capability for tobacco control and/or regulatory science.describe how your study aims make use of the unique nature of the path study design and biospecimens. provide justification for requesting these specific biospecimens and explain why other sources of similar biospecimens are not appropriate.approachdescribe how your overall research strategy and use of specific methods and analyses will accomplish the specific aims of the study. describe how the choice of participant variables, biospecimens, assays, and statistical analyses will answer the research questions. list challenges, and potential confounders and biases that might be encountered in conducting the proposed study and what measures will be taken to minimize these issues.biospecimen information: briefly describe participant characteristics (variables) to define participant groups for source of biospecimens.path study biospecimens may be used to validate previous studies or used in combination with biospecimens from other studies to increase sample size and study power. however, if biospecimens are used for the latter purpose, investigators must show in their application that the biospecimens from the path study and other studies are comparable.methodology/assays: list each laboratory assay planned for the biospecimens. provide the following information for each assay:describe numbers, types and volumes of requested biospecimens. include a clear justification for number of biospecimens and volume(s) of biospecimens being requested.volume required (include justification for volume requested, and both dead and assay volumes); a clear justification for number of biospecimens and volume(s) of biospecimens being requested; multiplex assay approaches that minimize volume requirements are preferred; methodologies and instrumentation (include assay kit name if commercial kit);analyte stability and assay validation for type of biospecimen requested;assay performance (precision, specificity, accuracy, linearity of range, limits of detection);quality control (qc) plan (proportion of qc samples, estimated batch size, use of a pooled sample or individual replicates, plan for evaluating assay performance, and the source of qc samples;competency of laboratories conducting the analyses;relevant preliminary data demonstrating experience with the assay.power and effect size: provide power calculations and anticipated size of a detectable effect for each aim. include details on the statistical approach used to calculate power calculations and/or study size.statistical analyses: provide a detailed statistical analysis plan including the following: enumeration of all exposure and outcome variables (primary and secondary) and covariates; statistical models and assumptions; plans for evaluating assumptions required by the models; and other statistical issues germane to the proposed research such as measurement error, multiple comparison testing, bias, interactions, and data adjustments.individuals conducting data analyses should include their biosketches with the application, even if they are not senior/key personnel on the project.protection of human subjects: applicants must consult with their local irb to determine whether the proposed research constitutes human subjects research or is exempt. applicants must provide documentation of the irb's determination if their application is approved. note: the use of de-identified biospecimens from the path study does not meet the nih definition of human subjects research. if these data are combined with data from other human subjects, consult with your local irb to determine the irb exemption status.biospecimen availability: applicants must include a letter from the path study team documenting that there is sufficient quantity of the biospecimens required for the proposed study.resource sharing plan: individuals are required to comply with the instructions for the resource sharing plans as provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.the following modifications also apply:only limited appendix materials are allowed.follow all instructions for the appendix as described in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.when involving human subjects research, clinical research, and/or nih-defined clinical trials (and when applicable, clinical trials research experience) follow all instructions for the phs human subjects and clinical trials information form in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, with the following additional instructions:if you answered “yes” to the question “are human subjects involved?” on the r&r other project information form, you must include at least one human subjects study record using the study record: phs human subjects and clinical trials information form or delayed onset study record.study record: phs human subjects and clinical trials informationall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.note: delayed onset does not apply to a study that can be described but will not start immediately (i.e., delayed start).all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.see part 1. section iii.1 for information regarding the requirement for obtaining a unique entity identifier and for completing and maintaining active registrations in system for award management (sam), nato commercial and government entity (ncage) code (if applicable), era commons, and grants.gov.part i. overview information contains information about key dates and times. applicants are encouraged to submit applications before the due date to ensure they have time to make any application corrections that might be necessary for successful submission. when a submission date falls on a weekend or federal holiday, the application deadline is automatically extended to the next business day.organizations must submit applications to grants.gov (the online portal to find and apply for grants across all federal agencies). applicants must then complete the submission process by tracking the status of the application in the era commons, nih’s electronic system for grants administration. nih and grants.gov systems check the application against many of the application instructions upon submission. errors must be corrected and a changed/corrected application must be submitted to grants.gov on or before the application due date and time. if a changed/corrected application is submitted after the deadline, the application will be considered late. applications that miss the due date and time are subjected to the nih policy on late application submission.applicants are responsible for viewing their application before the due date in the era commons to ensure accurate and successful submission.information on the submission process and a definition of on-time submission are provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.this initiative is not subject to intergovernmental review.all nih awards are subject to the terms and conditions, cost principles, and other considerations described in the nih grants policy statement.pre-award costs are allowable only as described in the nih grants policy statement.applications must be submitted electronically following the instructions described in the sf424 (r&r) application guide. paper applications will not be accepted.applicants must complete all required registrations before the application due date. section iii. eligibility information contains information about registration.for assistance with your electronic application or for more information on the electronic submission process, visit how to apply – application guide. if you encounter a system issue beyond your control that threatens your ability to complete the submission process on-time, you must follow the dealing with system issues guidance. for assistance with application submission, contact the application submission contacts in section vii.important reminders:all pd(s)/pi(s) must include their era commons id in the credential field of the senior/key person profile component of the sf424(r&r) application package. failure to register in the commons and to include a valid pd/pi commons id in the credential field will prevent the successful submission of an electronic application to nih. see section iii. eligibility information of this foa for information on registration requirements.the applicant organization must ensure that the duns number it provides on the application is the same number used in the organization’s profile in the era commons and for the system for award management. additional information may be found in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.see more tips for avoiding common errors.upon receipt, applications will be evaluated for completeness and compliance with application instructions by the center for scientific review, nih. applications that are incomplete or non-compliant will not be reviewed.applicants are required to follow the instructions for post-submission materials, as described in the policy. any instructions provided here are in addition to the instructions in the policy.only the review criteria described below will be considered in the review process. applications submitted to the nih in support of the nih mission are evaluated for scientific and technical merit through the nih peer review system.for this particular announcement, note the following:the x01 resource access program invites eligible institutions to seek access to nih research resources, which are specified in each x01 foa. this includes programs where institutions will request access to submit to the resource (e.g., high throughput screening assays) as well as programs where access to a specific nih research resource is needed to conduct certain research. important factors in the peer review of x01 applications are the need for, and potential benefit of, gaining access to the resource, specifications for any assays proposed, timelines for completion and plans for follow-on studies.reviewers will provide an overall impact score to reflect their assessment of the likelihood for the project to exert a sustained, powerful influence on the research field(s) involved, in consideration of the following review criteria and additional review criteria (as applicable for the project proposed).reviewers will consider each of the review criteria below in the determination of scientific merit, and give a separate score for each. an application does not need to be strong in all categories to be judged likely to have major scientific impact. for example, a project that by its nature is not innovative may be essential to advance a field.significancedoes the project address an important problem or a critical barrier to progress in the field? is the prior research that serves as the key support for the proposed project rigorous? if the aims of the project are achieved, how will scientific knowledge, technical capability, and/or clinical practice be improved? how will successful completion of the aims change the concepts, methods, technologies, treatments, services, or preventative interventions that drive this field?additional criteria specific to this foa:does the application describe how successful completion of aims will contribute to scientific knowledge and improvements in technical capability for tobacco control and regulatory science?can the study aims be accomplished using path study biospecimens and data? do the specific aims address path study objectives?have the investigators provided adequate justification for use of path study biospecimens and successfully explained why other sources of similar biospecimens are not appropriate?does the proposed research make use of the questionnaire and biomarker data associated with the biospecimens to help answer the research questions?investigator(s)are the pd(s)/pi(s), collaborators, and other researchers well suited to the project? if early stage investigators or those in the early stages of independent careers, do they have appropriate experience and training? if established, have they demonstrated an ongoing record of accomplishments that have advanced their field(s)? if the project is collaborative or multi-pd/pi, do the investigators have complementary and integrated expertise; are their leadership approach, governance and organizational structure appropriate for the project?additional criteria specific to this foa: are individuals with sufficient expertise and experience proposed to conduct the data analyses?innovationdoes the application challenge and seek to shift current research or clinical practice paradigms by utilizing novel theoretical concepts, approaches or methodologies, instrumentation, or interventions? are the concepts, approaches or methodologies, instrumentation, or interventions novel to one field of research or novel in a broad sense? is a refinement, improvement, or new application of theoretical concepts, approaches or methodologies, instrumentation, or interventions proposed?additional criteria specific to this foa: does the application challenge and seek to shift current research in the field of tobacco science as it relates to the manufacture, distribution, and marketing of tobacco products? is a refinement, improvement, or new application of theoretical concepts, approaches or methodologies, or instrumentation proposed? will the outcomes of the project provide new information to further develop the knowledge base that informs the manufacture, distribution, and marketing of tobacco products in order to protect public health?are the overall strategy, methodology, and analyses well-reasoned and appropriate to accomplish the specific aims of the project? have the investigators included plans to address weaknesses in the rigor of prior research that serves as the key support for the proposed project? have the investigators presented strategies to ensure a robust and unbiased approach, as appropriate for the work proposed? are potential problems, alternative strategies, and benchmarks for success presented? if the project is in the early stages of development, will the strategy establish feasibility and will particularly risky aspects be managed? have the investigators presented adequate plans to address relevant biological variables, such as sex, for studies in vertebrate animals or human subjects?additional criteria specific to this foa:are the variables selected to define participant groups appropriate for fulfilling the specific aims of the study? are the types, numbers and volumes of biospecimens justified?have the proposed assays been validated for use with the specific types of biospecimens requested? have sufficient preliminary data been presented to demonstrate accuracy and robustness of the proposed assays? have the investigators provided assay validation data? if multiple assays are available for a proposed analyte, have the investigators justified their choice for using a particular assay? have the investigators described the laboratory quality control plan and if so, is it adequate?have the investigators provided effect sizes and used power calculations to determine the sample sizes needed to detect significant effects for each aim? did they state the power levels they wished to achieve with the proposed sample sizes?does the statistical analysis plan adequately describe the data that will be analyzed and the statistical methods that will be used? does the plan address statistical issues germane to the research such as measurement error, multiple comparison testing, bias, interactions, and data adjustments? are individuals with sufficient expertise and experience proposed to conduct the data analyses? are these effect sizes and power levels appropriate to address the proposed scientific aims?if the project involves human subjects and/or nih-defined clinical research, are the plans to address 1) the protection of human subjects from research risks, and 2) inclusion (or exclusion) of individuals on the basis of sex/gender, race, and ethnicity, as well as the inclusion or exclusion of individuals of all ages (including children and older adults), justified in terms of the scientific goals and research strategy proposed?environmentwill the scientific environment in which the work will be done contribute to the probability of success? are the institutional support, equipment and other physical resources available to the investigators adequate for the project proposed? will the project benefit from unique features of the scientific environment, subject populations, or collaborative arrangements?as applicable for the project proposed, reviewers will evaluate the following additional items while determining scientific and technical merit, and in providing an overall impact score, but will not give separate scores for these items.protections for human subjectsfor research that involves human subjects but does not involve one of the categories of research that are exempt under 45 cfr part 46, the committee will evaluate the justification for involvement of human subjects and the proposed protections from research risk relating to their participation according to the following five review criteria: 1) risk to subjects, 2) adequacy of protection against risks, 3) potential benefits to the subjects and others, 4) importance of the knowledge to be gained, and 5) data and safety monitoring for clinical trials.for research that involves human subjects and meets the criteria for one or more of the categories of research that are exempt under 45 cfr part 46, the committee will evaluate: 1) the justification for the exemption, 2) human subjects involvement and characteristics, and 3) sources of materials. for additional information on review of the human subjects section, please refer to the guidelines for the review of human subjects.inclusion of women, minorities, and individuals across the lifespanwhen the proposed project involves human subjects and/or nih-defined clinical research, the committee will evaluate the proposed plans for the inclusion (or exclusion) of individuals on the basis of sex/gender, race, and ethnicity, as well as the inclusion (or exclusion) of individuals of all ages (including children and older adults) to determine if it is justified in terms of the scientific goals and research strategy proposed. for additional information on review of the inclusion section, please refer to the guidelines for the review of inclusion in clinical research.vertebrate animalsthe committee will evaluate the involvement of live vertebrate animals as part of the scientific assessment according to the following criteria: (1) description of proposed procedures involving animals, including species, strains, ages, sex, and total number to be used; (2) justifications for the use of animals versus alternative models and for the appropriateness of the species proposed; (3) interventions to minimize discomfort, distress, pain and injury; and (4) justification for euthanasia method if not consistent with the avma guidelines for the euthanasia of animals. reviewers will assess the use of chimpanzees as they would any other application proposing the use of vertebrate animals. for additional information on review of the vertebrate animals section, please refer to the worksheet for review of the vertebrate animal section.biohazardsreviewers will assess whether materials or procedures proposed are potentially hazardous to research personnel and/or the environment, and if needed, determine whether adequate protection is proposed.resubmissionsnot applicablerenewalsnot applicablerevisionsnot applicablenote: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023, the data sharing plan and genomic data sharing plan (gds) as part of the resource sharing plan will not be evaluated at time of review, and a data management and sharing plan is not applicable for this foa.as applicable for the project proposed, reviewers will consider each of the following items, but will not give scores for these items, and should not consider them in providing an overall impact score.applications from foreign organizationsnot applicableselect agent researchreviewers will assess the information provided in this section of the application, including 1) the select agent(s) to be used in the proposed research, 2) the registration status of all entities where select agent(s) will be used, 3) the procedures that will be used to monitor possession use and transfer of select agent(s), and 4) plans for appropriate biosafety, biocontainment, and security of the select agent(s).resource sharing plansreviewers will comment on whether the following resource sharing plans, or the rationale for not sharing the following types of resources, are reasonable: (1) data sharing plan; (2) sharing model organisms; and (3) genomic data sharing plan (gds).authentication of key biological and/or chemical resources:for projects involving key biological and/or chemical resources, reviewers will comment on the brief plans proposed for identifying and ensuring the validity of those resources.budget and period of supportreviewers will consider whether the budget and the requested period of support are fully justified and reasonable in relation to the proposed research.x01 applications will be evaluated for scientific and technical merit by the path study biospecimen access committee and path study management using the above review criteria.as part of the scientific peer review, all applications will receive a written critique.applications may undergo a selection process in which only those applications deemed to have the highest scientific and technical merit (generally the top half of applications under review) will be discussed and assigned an overall impact score.as these x01 applications are reviewed by the path study, they will not undergo advisory council review. .information regarding the disposition of applications is available in the nih grants policy statement.a formal notification in the form of a notice of award (noa) will be provided to the applicant organization for successful applications. the noa signed by the grants management officer is the authorizing document and will be sent via email to the grantee’s business official.awardees must comply with any funding restrictions described in section iv.6. funding restrictions. selection of an application for award is not an authorization to begin performance. any costs incurred before receipt of the noa are at the recipient's risk. these costs may be reimbursed only to the extent considered allowable pre-award costs.any application awarded in response to this foa will be subject to terms and conditions found on the award conditions and information for nih grants website. this includes any recent legislation and policy applicable to awards that is highlighted on this website.institutional review board or independent ethics committee approval: grantee institutions must ensure that protocols are reviewed by their irb or iec. to help ensure the safety of participants enrolled in nih-funded studies, the awardee must provide nih copies of documents related to all major changes in the status of ongoing protocols.all nih grant and cooperative agreement awards include the nih grants policy statement as part of the noa. for these terms of award, see the nih grants policy statement part ii: terms and conditions of nih grant awards, subpart a: general and part ii: terms and conditions of nih grant awards, subpart b: terms and conditions for specific types of grants, grantees, and activities. more information is provided at award conditions and information for nih grants.recipients of federal financial assistance (ffa) from hhs must administer their programs in compliance with federal civil rights laws that prohibit discrimination on the basis of race, color, national origin, disability, age and, in some circumstances, religion, conscience, and sex. this includes ensuring programs are accessible to persons with limited english proficiency. the hhs office for civil rights provides guidance on complying with civil rights laws enforced by hhs. please see https://www.hhs.gov/civil-rights/for-providers/provider-obligations/index.html and http://www.hhs.gov/ocr/civilrights/understanding/section1557/index.html.hhs recognizes that research projects are often limited in scope for many reasons that are nondiscriminatory, such as the principal investigator’s scientific interest, funding limitations, recruitment requirements, and other considerations. thus, criteria in research protocols that target or exclude certain populations are warranted where nondiscriminatory justifications establish that such criteria are appropriate with respect to the health or safety of the subjects, the scientific study design, or the purpose of the research. for additional guidance regarding how the provisions apply to nih grant programs, please contact the scientific/research contact that is identified in section vii under agency contacts of this foa.please contact the hhs office for civil rights for more information about obligations and prohibitions under federal civil rights laws at https://www.hhs.gov/ocr/about-us/contact-us/index.html or call 1-800-368-1019 or tdd 1-800-537-7697.in accordance with the statutory provisions contained in section 872 of the duncan hunter national defense authorization act of fiscal year 2009 (public law 110-417), nih awards will be subject to the federal awardee performance and integrity information system (fapiis) requirements. fapiis requires federal award making officials to review and consider information about an applicant in the designated integrity and performance system (currently fapiis) prior to making an award. an applicant, at its option, may review information in the designated integrity and performance systems accessible through fapiis and comment on any information about itself that a federal agency previously entered and is currently in fapiis. the federal awarding agency will consider any comments by the applicant, in addition to other information in fapiis, in making a judgement about the applicant’s integrity, business ethics, and record of performance under federal awards when completing the review of risk posed by applicants as described in 45 cfr part 75.205 “federal awarding agency review of risk posed by applicants.” this provision will apply to all nih grants and cooperative agreements except fellowships.not applicableinvestigators are required to submit annual progress reports. additional information about the requirements for annual progress reports may be found in the path study biospecimen access — policies and procedures for investigators.a final rppr, invention statement, and the expenditure data portion of the federal financial report are required for closeout of an award, as described in the nih grants policy statement.the federal funding accountability and transparency act of 2006 (transparency act), includes a requirement for awardees of federal grants to report information about first-tier subawards and executive compensation under federal assistance awards issued in fy2011 or later. all awardees of applicable nih grants and cooperative agreements are required to report to the federal subaward reporting system (fsrs) available at www.fsrs.gov on all subawards over $25,000. see the nih grants policy statement for additional information on this reporting requirement.in accordance with the regulatory requirements provided at 45 cfr 75.113 and appendix xii to 45 cfr part 75, recipients that have currently active federal grants, cooperative agreements, and procurement contracts from all federal awarding agencies with a cumulative total value greater than $10,000,000 for any period of time during the period of performance of a federal award, must report and maintain the currency of information reported in the system for award management (sam) about civil, criminal, and administrative proceedings in connection with the award or performance of a federal award that reached final disposition within the most recent five-year period. the recipient must also make semiannual disclosures regarding such proceedings. proceedings information will be made publicly available in the designated integrity and performance system (currently fapiis). this is a statutory requirement under section 872 of public law 110-417, as amended (41 u.s.c. 2313). as required by section 3010 of public law 111-212, all information posted in the designated integrity and performance system on or after april 15, 2011, except past performance reviews required for federal procurement contracts, will be publicly available. full reporting requirements and procedures are found in appendix xii to 45 cfr part 75 – award term and conditions for recipient integrity and performance matters.we encourage inquiries concerning this funding opportunity and welcome the opportunity to answer questions from potential applicants.era service desk (questions regarding assist, era commons, application errors and warnings, documenting system problems that threaten submission by the due date, and post-submission issues)finding help online: http://grants.nih.gov/support/ (preferred method of contact) telephone: 301-402-7469 or 866-504-9552 (toll free)general grants information (questions regarding application instructions, application processes, and nih grant resources) email: grantsinfo@nih.gov (preferred method of contact) telephone: 301-637-3015grants.gov customer support (questions regarding grants.gov registration and workspace) contact center telephone: 800-518-4726 email: support@grants.govheather l. kimmel, ph.d.national institute on drug abuse (nida)telephone: 301-443-6504email: heather.kimmel@nih.govheather l. kimmel, ph.d.national institute on drug abuse (nida)telephone: 301-443-6504email: heather.kimmel@nih.govnot applicablerecently issued trans-nih policy notices may affect your application submission. a full list of policy notices published by nih is provided in the nih guide for grants and contracts. all awards are subject to the terms and conditions, cost principles, and other considerations described in the nih grants policy statement.awards are made under the authorization of sections 301 and 405 of the public health service act as amended (42 usc 241 and 284) and under federal regulations 42 cfr part 52 and 45 cfr part 75.weekly toc for this announcement nih funding opportunities and noticesnote: for help accessing pdf, rtf, ms word, excel, powerpoint, audio or video files, see help downloading files.