NINDS Postdoctoral Mentored Career Development Award (K01 No Independent Clinical Trial Allowed)
national institutes of health (nih)national institute of neurological disorders and stroke (ninds)ninds postdoctoral mentored career development award (k01 - no independent clinical trial allowed)k01 research scientist development award - research & trainingreissue of par-18-686 see notices of special interest associated with this funding opportunitypar-20-049par-20-050, k01 research scientist development award - research & trainingsee section iii. 3. additional information on eligibility.93.853the purpose of the ninds postdoctoral mentored career development award is to support the ability of outstanding, mentored postdoctoral researchers to develop a potentially impactful research project with a comprehensive career development plan that will enable them to launch an independent research program. candidates are encouraged to apply for support from this ninds k01 any time between the second through fourth year of cumulative mentored postdoctoral research experience, and may be supported by this ninds k01 within the first 6 years of cumulative postdoctoral research experience. because the completion of a strong, well-planned, thorough career development plan, in addition to development of an impactful research project, is a critical aspect of this k01, applications are strongly encouraged early in the postdoctoral eligibility window. by the end of the proposed k01 award period, the candidate should be poised to begin an independent research career with a well-developed, impactful research project and the expertise required to become a leader in the field.this funding opportunity announcement (foa) is designed specifically for applicants proposing research that does not involve leading an independent small clinical trial. applicants to this foa are permitted to propose research experience in a clinical trial led by a mentor or co-mentor. applicants proposing an independent small clinical trial as lead investigator, should apply to the companion foa (par-20-050).november 7, 2019january 12, 2020not applicablestandard dates apply.the first standard due date for this foa is february 12, 2020.all applications are due by 5:00 pm local time of applicant organization. all types of non-aids applications allowed for this funding opportunity announcement are due on the listed date(s). applications are encouraged to apply early to allow adequate time to make any corrections to errors found in the application during the submission process by the due date.standard aids dates apply.the first aids application due date for this foa is may 7, 2020all appilcations are due by 5:00 pm local time of applicant organization. all types of aids and aids-related applications allowed for this funding opportunity announcement are due the listed date(s).applicants are encouraged to apply early to allow adequate time to make any corrections to errors found in the application during the submission process by the due date.standard dates applystandard dates applystandard dates applynew date may 8, 2023 per issuance of not-ns-23-044. (original expiration date: january 8, 2023)not applicableit is critical that applicants follow the career development (k) instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, except where instructed to do otherwise (in this foa or in a notice from the nih guide for grants and contracts). conformance to all requirements (both in the application guide and the foa) is required and strictly enforced. applicants must read and follow all application instructions in the application guide as well as any program-specific instructions noted in section iv. when the program-specific instructions deviate from those in the application guide, follow the program-specific instructions. applications that do not comply with these instructions may be delayed or not accepted for review.there are several options available to submit your application through grants.gov to nih and department of health and human services partners. you must use one of these submission options to access the application forms for this opportunity.part 1. overview information part 2. full text of the announcementsection i. funding opportunity description section ii. award information section iii. eligibility information section iv. application and submission information section v. application review information section vi. award administration information section vii. agency contacts section viii. other informationthe overall goal of the nih research career development program is to help ensure that a diverse pool of highly trained scientists is available in appropriate scientific disciplines to address the nation's biomedical, behavioral, and clinical research needs. nih institutes and centers (ics) support a variety of mentored and non-mentored career development award programs designed to foster the transition of new investigators to research independence and to support established investigators in achieving specific objectives. candidates should review the different career development (k) award programs to determine the best program to support their goals. more information about career programs may be found at the nih extramural training mechanisms website.the objective of this ninds postdoctoral mentored career development award (k01) is to provide support for the development of a potentially impactful research project, combined with a sustained period (up to 4 years) of intensive research career development under the guidance of an experienced mentor. the project, together with the skills and knowledge obtained, should form the basis for the candidate's projected independent research program. candidates are eligible to apply for this postdoctoral k01 support in years two through four of cumulative postdoctoral research experience, and may be supported by the ninds postdoctoral k01 within the first 6 years of cumulative postdoctoral research experience (this eligibility window applies to new and resubmission applications). although guided by one or more postdoctoral mentors, the candidate will be primarily responsible for the oversight and conduct of the proposed research project. by the end of the k01 award period, the candidate should be poised to begin an independent research career, and have a well-developed, potentially impactful project that can be continued by the k01 awardee in an independent research position.ninds has several mechanisms to support mentored, postdoctoral research. this ninds k01 is intended to facilitate the development of impactful, innovative projects and career development activities that will prepare outstanding, mentored postdoctoral investigators for an independent research career. successful applicants for this award are intended to be those who have previous high quality research accomplishments, innovative and/or creative ideas, and a potentially impactful project for which they have already obtained some high-quality preliminary data. the candidate's research mentor(s) should have an outstanding record of research accomplishment, including a history of attention to the highest principles of experimental design and data analysis and interpretation. in addition, it is anticipated that the primary mentor will have a record of successfully mentoring others towards their goal as independent researchers. it is acceptable for research to be conducted under the guidance of a primary mentor who has outstanding research credentials but limited track record in training others. in this case, however, there must be one or more additional mentors who are integral to the research career development program and who have a strong training record (including a strong record of trainees who transition to independent research positions). the research project being developed should hold promise to produce highly significant results and future discoveries that will advance the goals of the ninds mission. the candidate should show promise, via his/her prior accomplishments, as well the plans, ideas and presentation in this application, to be a leader in his/her field.projects are encouraged at all levels of investigation, including basic science, that are targeted to understanding central and/or peripheral nervous system processes but may not have direct disease-relevance, basic science with direct relevance to one or more neurological diseases or disorders, or clinical (patient-oriented) research. the integrated program of research and career development is expected to provide applicants with the breadth and depth of understanding that will place them at the forefront of their scientific field.the production of highly impactful research and pursuit of a competitive, successful research career will require that candidates have a strong working knowledge of their experimental system as well as strong written and oral communication skills. thus, in addition to high quality, published data and expertise in a research area, the research and career development plan should promote:the completion of a strong, well-planned, thorough career development plan, in addition to development of an impactful research project, is a critical aspect of this k01. consequently, applications are strongly encouraged from candidates who are at the earlier end of the eligibility window, to ensure sufficient time to accomplish the career development goals of this foa.note: this funding opportunity announcement (foa) is designed specifically for applicants proposing research that does not involve leading an independent small clinical trial. applicants to this foa are permitted to propose research experience in a clinical trial led by a mentor or co-mentor. applicants proposing an independent small clinical trial as lead investigator, should apply to the companion foa (par-20-050). applicants to this foa are permitted to propose research experience in a clinical trial led by a mentor or co-mentor.see section viii. other information for award authorities and regulations.grant: a support mechanism providing money, property, or both to an eligible entity to carry out an approved project or activity.new resubmissionthe oer glossary and the sf424 (r&r) application guide provide details on these application types. only those application types listed here are allowed for this foa.not allowed: only accepting applications that do not propose an independent clinical trial.note: applicants may propose to gain experience in a clinical trial led by a mentor or co-mentor as part of their research career development.need help determining whether you are doing a clinical trial?the number of awards is contingent upon nih appropriations and the submission of a sufficient number of meritorious applications.award budgets are composed of salary and other program-related expenses, as described below.the total project period may not exceed 48 months.the maximum allowable salary for an applicant at the time of award (i.e. for year 1 of the award) is the applicant's base postdoctoral salary at the time of application plus 5%. thereafter, awardees are entitled to the same % salary increase in subsequent years as nrsa postdoctoral fellows at the same career level. in the event that the k01 scholar moves to a faculty position, salary may be adjusted to be consistent with the base salary of this new position. nih will contribute up to $95,000 per year toward the salary of the career award recipient. further guidance on budgeting for career development salaries is provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.see also not-od-17-094the total nih contribution to salary, however, may not exceed the legislatively mandated salary cap. see: http://grants.nih.gov/grants/policy/salcap_summary.htm.nih will contribute $30,000 per year toward the research development costs of the award recipient, which must be justified and consistent with the stage of development of the candidate and the proportion of time to be spent in research or career development activities.salary for mentors, secretarial and administrative assistants, etc. is not allowed.indirect costs (also known as facilities & administrative [f&a] costs) are reimbursed at 8% of modified total direct costs.nih grant policies as described in the nih grants policy statement will apply to the applications submitted and awards made from this foa.higher education institutionsthe following types of higher education institutions are always encouraged to apply for nih support as public or private institutions of higher education:nonprofits other than institutions of higher educationfor-profit organizationsgovernmentsothernon-domestic (non-u.s.) entities (foreign institutions) are not eligible to apply. non-domestic (non-u.s.) components of u.s. organizations are not eligible to apply. foreign components, as defined in the nih grants policy statement, are allowed.applicant organizationsapplicant organizations must complete and maintain the following registrations as described in the sf 424 (r&r) application guide to be eligible to apply for or receive an award. all registrations must be completed prior to the application being submitted. registration can take 6 weeks or more, so applicants should begin the registration process as soon as possible. the nih policy on late submission of grant applications states that failure to complete registrations in advance of a due date is not a valid reason for a late submission.program directors/principal investigators (pd(s)/pi(s))all pd(s)/pi(s) must have an era commons account. pd(s)/pi(s) should work with their organizational officials to either create a new account or to affiliate their existing account with the applicant organization in era commons. if the pd/pi is also the organizational signing official, they must have two distinct era commons accounts, one for each role. obtaining an era commons account can take up to 2 weeks.any candidate with the skills, knowledge, and resources necessary to carry out the proposed research as the program director/principal investigator (pd/pi) is invited to work with his/her mentor and organization to develop an application for support. individuals from underrepresented racial and ethnic groups and individuals with disabilities are always encouraged to apply for nih support. multiple pds/pis are not allowed.by the time of award, the individual must be a citizen or a non-citizen national of the united states or have been lawfully admitted for permanent residence (i.e., possess a currently valid permanent resident card uscis form i-551, or other legal verification of such status.this foa is only open to candidates with a research doctorate (ph.d. or equivalent) or candidates who have a clinical doctorate but will not have a license to practice clinically for the duration of the k01 award. individuals who currently have a license to practice clinically, or will have a license to practice clinically at any time during the k01 period, are not eligible. candidates with a clinical doctorate (m.d. or equivalent) who are or will be licensed to practice clinically are encouraged to use either the k08, k23 or k99 mechanisms. this ninds k01 will support only those in mentored, postdoctoral research positions. individuals with any kind of faculty position (including instructor, research assistant professor, etc.) are not eligible to apply for this ninds postdoctoral k01. if a k01 awardee transitions to a faculty position within the first 18 months of this award, the award will be terminated. however, if the awardee transitions to a faculty position after the first 18 months of the award, up to 12 months of the remaining time on the award may be used to support the scholar in the independent position.in addition to standard, automatic nih leave policies, fellows who have children while supported by an award made under this foa, either through childbirth or adoption, are encouraged to consider requesting a six-month paid extension of their k01. ninds may provide one six-month extension during the mentored postdoctoral period to ensure that k01 research and career development can be completed. requests must be submitted in writing, following the procedures described in the nih grants policy statement, section 12.13.1.current and former pds/pis on nih research project (r01), program project (p01), center grants (p50), sbir/sttr (r41, r42, r43, r44), other major individual career development awards (e.g., k01, k07, k08, k22, k23, k25, k76, k99/r00), as well as current and former leads of sub-projects of program project (p01), sub-projects of center grants (p50), or the equivalent of any of these mechanisms, are not eligible. current and former pds/pis of an nih small grant (r03), exploratory/developmental grant (r21), dissertation award (r36) remain eligible.this foa does not require cost sharing as defined in the nih grants policy statement.applicant organizations may submit more than one application, provided that each application is scientifically distinct, and each is from a different candidate.the nih will not accept duplicate or highly overlapping applications under review at the same time. an individual may not have two or more competing nih career development applications pending review concurrently. in addition, nih will not accept:candidates may not submit research project grant (rpg) applications concurrently with the k application, nor can they have a k application and r01 or equivalent application pending simultaneously. k award recipients are encouraged to obtain funding from nih or other federal sources either as a pd/pi on a competing research grant award or cooperative agreement, or as project leader on a competing multi-project award as described in not-od 18-157.at the time of award, the candidate must have a “full-time” appointment at the applicant institution. candidates are required to commit a minimum of nine person months of effort (i.e., 75% of full-time professional effort) to their program of career development during the mentored phase. candidates may engage in other duties as part of the professional effort not covered by this award, as long as such duties do not interfere with or detract from the proposed career development program.candidates who have va appointments may not consider part of the va effort toward satisfying the full time requirement at the applicant institution. candidates with va appointments should contact the staff person in the relevant institute or center prior to preparing an application to discuss their eligibility.after the receipt of the award, adjustments to the required level of effort may be made in certain circumstances. see not-od-09-036 for more details.before submitting the application, the candidate must identify a mentor who will supervise the proposed career development and research experience. the mentor should be an active investigator in the area of the proposed research and be committed both to the career development of the candidate and to the direct supervision of the candidate's research. the mentor must explicitly document the availability of sufficient research support that can be used as needed for the proposed k01 project and facilities for the highest quality research. candidates are encouraged to identify more than one mentor, i.e., a mentoring team (or advisory committee), if this is deemed advantageous for providing expert advice in all aspects of the research career development program. in such cases, one individual must be identified as the primary mentor who will coordinate the candidate's research. the candidate should work with the mentor(s) in preparing the application. the mentor, or an integral member of the mentoring team, should have a successful track record of mentoring individuals at the candidate's career stage, including a record of prior mentees progressing to independent research positions. in addition, all mentors should have a record of conducting research of the highest quality with respect to experimental design and data analysis and interpretation. the mentor(s) should be committed to developing the k01 applicant towards an eventual goal as a competitive candidate for an independent research position.institutional environmentthe applicant institution must have a strong, well-established record of research and career development activities and faculty qualified to serve as mentors in neuroscience research. applications must include evidence of appropriate institutional commitment to the development of the k01 applicant as a competitive candidate for an independent research position. this commitment does not require the promise of a future faculty position, but includes access to all the space and facilities required to conduct the proposed research, as well as access to resources (both financial and otherwise) required for the highest quality approach to the proposed research and the development of expertise required for future success as an independent scientist.the application forms package specific to this opportunity must be accessed through assist, grants.gov workspace or an institutional system-to-system solution. links to apply using assist or grants.gov workspace are available in part 1 of this foa. see your administrative office for instructions if you plan to use an institutional system-to-system solution.it is critical that applicants follow the career development (k) instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, except where instructed in this funding opportunity announcement to do otherwise. conformance to the requirements in the application guide is required and strictly enforced. applications that are out of compliance with these instructions may be delayed or not accepted for review.all page limitations described in the sf424 (r&r) application guide and the table of page limits must be followed.the following section supplements the instructions found in the sf 424 (r&r) application guide and should be used for preparing an application to this foa.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.the phs 398 career development award supplemental form is comprised of the following sections:1. candidate2. research plan3. other candidate information4. mentor, co-mentor, consultant, collaborators5. environment & institutional commitment to the candidate6. other research plan sections7. appendixall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed, with the following additional instructions:all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed, with the following additional instructions:candidate information and goals for career developmentcandidate’s backgroundcareer goals and objectivescandidate’s plan for career development/training activities during award periodresearch plan sectionall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed, with the following additional instructions:research strategytraining in the responsible conduct of researchmentor, co-mentor, consultant, collaborators sectionall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed, with the following additional instructions:plans and statements of mentor and co-mentor(s)letters of support from collaborators, contributors and consultantsenvironmental and institutional commitment to the candidateall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed, with the following additional instructions:description of institutional environmentinstitutional commitment to the candidate’s research career developmentappendixlimited items are allowed in the appendix. follow all instructions for the appendix as described in the sf424 (r&r) application guide; any instructions provided here are in addition to the sf424 (r&r) application guide instructions.when involving human subjects research, clinical research, and/or nih-defined clinical trials (and when applicable, clinical trials research experience) follow all instructions for the phs human subjects and clinical trials information form in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, with the following additional instructions:if you answered “yes” to the question “are human subjects involved?” on the r&r other project information form, you must include at least one human subjects study record using the study record: phs human subjects and clinical trials information form or a delayed onset study record.study record: phs human subjects and clinical trials informationall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed with the following additional instructions:delayed onset studynote: delayed onset does not apply to a study that can be described but will not start immediately (i.e., delayed start).all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.candidates must carefully follow the sf424 (r&r) application guide, including the time period for when reference letters will be accepted. applications lacking the appropriate required reference letters will not be reviewed. this is a separate process from submitting an application electronically. reference letters are submitted directly through the era commons submit referee information link and not through grants.gov.see part 1. section iii.1 for information regarding the requirement for obtaining a unique entity identifier and for completing and maintaining active registrations in system for award management (sam), nato commercial and government entity (ncage) code (if applicable), era commons, and grants.gov.part i. overview information contains information about key dates and times. applicants are encouraged to submit applications before the due date to ensure they have time to make any application corrections that might be necessary for successful submission. when a submission date falls on a weekend or federal holiday, the application deadline is automatically extended to the next business day.organizations must submit applications to grants.gov (the online portal to find and apply for grants across all federal agencies) using assist or other electronic submission systems. applicants must then complete the submission process by tracking the status of the application in the era commons, nih’s electronic system for grants administration. nih and grants.gov systems check the application against many of the application instructions upon submission. errors must be corrected and a changed/corrected application must be submitted to grants.gov on or before the application due date. and time. if a changed/corrected application is submitted after the deadline, the application will be considered late. applications that miss the due date and time are subjected to the nih policy on late application submission.applicants are responsible for viewing their application before the due date in the era commons to ensure accurate and successful submission.information on the submission process and a definition of on-time submission are provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.this initiative is not subject to intergovernmental review.all nih awards are subject to the terms and conditions, cost principles, and other considerations described in the nih grants policy statement.pre-award costs are allowable only as described in the nih grants policy statement.applications must be submitted electronically following the instructions described in the sf424 (r&r) application guide. paper applications will not be accepted.applicants must complete all required registrations before the application due date. section iii. eligibility information contains information about registration.for assistance with your electronic application or for more information on the electronic submission process, visit how to apply – application guide. if you encounter a system issue beyond your control that threatens your ability to complete the submission process on-time, you must follow the dealing with system issues guidance. for assistance with application submission contact the application submission contacts in section vii.important reminders:all pd(s)/pi(s) must include their era commons id in the credential field of the senior/key person profile component of the sf424(r&r) application package. failure to register in the commons and to include a valid pd/pi commons id in the credential field will prevent the successful submission of an electronic application to nih.the applicant organization must ensure that the duns number it provides on the application is the same number used in the organization’s profile in the era commons and for the system for award management (sam). additional information may be found in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.see more tips for avoiding common errors.upon receipt, applications will be evaluated for completeness and compliance with application instructions by the center for scientific review, nih. applications that are incomplete or non-compliant will not be reviewed.applicants are required to follow the instructions for post-submission materials, as described in the policy. any instructions provided here are in addition to the instructions in the policy.only the review criteria described below will be considered in the review process. applications submitted to the nih in support of the nih mission are evaluated for scientific and technical merit through the nih peer review system.for this particular announcement, note the following: reviewers should evaluate the candidate’s potential for developing an independent research program that will make important contributions to the field, taking into consideration the years of research experience and the likely value of the proposed research career development as a vehicle for developing a successful, independent research program.reviewers should provide their assessment of the likelihood that the proposed career development and research plan will enhance the candidate’s potential for a productive, independent scientific research career in a health-related field, taking into consideration the criteria below in determining the overall impact score.reviewers will consider each of the review criteria below in the determination of scientific merit, and give a separate score for each. an application does not need to be strong in all categories to be judged likely to have major scientific impact.candidatecareer development plan/career goals and objectives/plan to provide mentoringresearch planmentor(s), co-mentor(s), consultant(s), collaborator(s)environment & institutional commitment to the candidateas applicable for the project proposed, reviewers will evaluate the following additional items while determining scientific and technical merit, and in providing an overall impact score, but will not give separate scores for these items.is the study timeline described in detail, taking into account start-up activities, the anticipated rate of enrollment, and planned follow-up assessment? is the projected timeline feasible and well justified? does the project incorporate efficiencies and utilize existing resources (e.g., ctsas, practice-based research networks, electronic medical records, administrative database, or patient registries) to increase the efficiency of participant enrollment and data collection, as appropriate?are potential challenges and corresponding solutions discussed (e.g., strategies that can be implemented in the event of enrollment shortfalls)?for research that involves human subjects but does not involve one of the categories of research that are exempt under 45 cfr part 46, the committee will evaluate the justification for involvement of human subjects and the proposed protections from research risk relating to their participation according to the following five review criteria: (1) risk to subjects, (2) adequacy of protection against risks, (3) potential benefits to the subjects and others, (4) importance of the knowledge to be gained, and (5) data and safety monitoring for clinical trials.for research that involves human subjects and meets the criteria for one or more of the categories of research that are exempt under 45 cfr part 46, the committee will evaluate: (1) the justification for the exemption, (2) human subjects involvement and characteristics, and (3) sources of materials. for additional information on review of the human subjects section, please refer to the guidelines for the review of human subjects.when the proposed project involves human subjects and/or nih-defined clinical research, the committee will evaluate the proposed plans for the inclusion (or exclusion) of individuals on the basis of sex/gender, race, and ethnicity, as well as the inclusion (or exclusion) of individuals across the lifespan (including children and older adults) to determine if it is justified in terms of the scientific goals and research strategy proposed. for additional information on review of the inclusion section, please refer to the guidelines for the review of inclusion in clinical research.the committee will evaluate the involvement of live vertebrate animals as part of the scientific assessment according to the following criteria: (1) description of proposed procedures involving animals, including species, strains, ages, sex, and total number to be used; (2) justifications for the use of animals versus alternative models and for the appropriateness of the species proposed; (3) interventions to minimize discomfort, distress, pain and injury; and (4) justification for euthanasia method if not consistent with the avma guidelines for the euthanasia of animals. reviewers will assess the use of chimpanzees as they would any other application proposing the use of vertebrate animals. for additional information on review of the vertebrate animals section, please refer to the worksheet for review of the vertebrate animal section.reviewers will assess whether materials or procedures proposed are potentially hazardous to research personnel and/or the environment, and if needed, determine whether adequate protection is proposed.for resubmissions, the committee will evaluate the application as now presented, taking into consideration the responses to comments from the previous scientific review group and changes made to the project.not applicablenot applicableas applicable for the project proposed, reviewers will consider each of the following items, but will not give scores for these items, and should not consider them in providing an overall impact score.all applications for support under this foa must include a plan to fulfill nih requirements for instruction in the responsible conduct of research (rcr). taking into account the level of experience of the applicant, including any prior instruction or participation in rcr as appropriate for the applicant’s career stage, the reviewers will evaluate the adequacy of the proposed rcr training in relation to the following five required components: 1) format - the required format of instruction, i.e., face-to-face lectures, coursework, and/or real-time discussion groups (a plan with only on-line instruction is not acceptable); 2) subject matter - the breadth of subject matter, e.g., conflict of interest, authorship, data management, human subjects and animal use, laboratory safety, research misconduct, research ethics; 3) faculty participation - the role of the mentor(s) and other faculty involvement in the fellow’s instruction; 4) duration of instruction - the number of contact hours of instruction (at least eight contact hours are required); and 5) frequency of instruction –instruction must occur during each career stage and at least once every four years. plans and past record will be rated as acceptable or unacceptable, and the summary statement will provide the consensus of the review committee. see also: not-od-10-019.reviewers will assess the information provided in this section of the application, including (1) the select agent(s) to be used in the proposed research, (2) the registration status of all entities where select agent(s) will be used, (3) the procedures that will be used to monitor possession use and transfer of select agent(s), and (4) plans for appropriate biosafety, biocontainment, and security of the select agent(s).reviewers will comment on whether the following resource sharing plans, or the rationale for not sharing the following types of resources, are reasonable: (1) data sharing plan; (2) sharing model organisms; and (3) genomic data sharing plan (gds).authentication of key biological and/or chemical resourcesfor projects involving key biological and/or chemical resources, reviewers will comment on the brief plans proposed for identifying and ensuring the validity of those resources.reviewers will consider whether the budget and the requested period of support are fully justified and reasonable in relation to the proposed research.applications will be evaluated for scientific and technical merit by (an) appropriate scientific review group(s), convened by the ninds scientific review branch in accordance with nih peer review policy and procedures, using the stated review criteria. assignment to a scientific review group will be shown in the era commons.as part of the scientific peer review, all applications:applications will be assigned on the basis of established phs referral guidelines to the appropriate nih institute or center. applications will compete for available funds with all other recommended applications . following initial peer review, recommended applications will receive a second level of review by the appropriate national advisory council or board. the following will be considered in making funding decisions:1. scientific and technical merit of the proposed project as determined by scientific peer review.2. availability of funds.3. relevance of the proposed project to program priorities.after the peer review of the application is completed, the pd/pi will be able to access his or her summary statement (written critique) via the era commons. refer to part 1 for dates for peer review, advisory council review, and earliest start dateinformation regarding the disposition of applications is available in the nih grants policy statement.if the application is under consideration for funding, nih will request "just-in-time" information from the applicant as described in the nih grants policy statement.a formal notification in the form of a notice of award (noa) will be provided to the applicant organization for successful applications. the noa signed by the grants management officer is the authorizing document and will be sent via email to the grantee’s business official.awardees must comply with any funding restrictions described in section iv.5. funding restrictions. selection of an application for award is not an authorization to begin performance. any costs incurred before receipt of the noa are at the recipient's risk. these costs may be reimbursed only to the extent considered allowable pre-award costs.any application awarded in response to this foa will be subject to terms and conditions found on the award conditions and information for nih grants website. this includes any recent legislation and policy applicable to awards that is highlighted on this website.institutional review board or independent ethics committee approval: grantee institutions must ensure that all protocols are reviewed by their irb or iec. to help ensure the safety of participants enrolled in nih-funded studies, the awardee must provide nih copies of documents related to all major changes in the status of ongoing protocols.all nih grant and cooperative agreement awards include the nih grants policy statement as part of the noa. for these terms of award, see the nih grants policy statement part ii: terms and conditions of nih grant awards, subpart a: general and part ii: terms and conditions of nih grant awards, subpart b: terms and conditions for specific types of grants, grantees, and activities. more information is provided at award conditions and information for nih grants. more specifically, for k awards, visit the research career development (“k”) awardees section of the nih grants policy statement.recipients of federal financial assistance (ffa) from hhs must administer their programs in compliance with federal civil rights law. this means that recipients of hhs funds must ensure equal access to their programs without regard to a person’s race, color, national origin, disability, age and, in some circumstances, sex and religion. this includes ensuring your programs are accessible to persons with limited english proficiency. hhs recognizes that research projects are often limited in scope for many reasons that are nondiscriminatory, such as the principal investigator’s scientific interest, funding limitations, recruitment requirements, and other considerations. thus, criteria in research protocols that target or exclude certain populations are warranted where nondiscriminatory justifications establish that such criteria are appropriate with respect to the health or safety of the subjects, the scientific study design, or the purpose of the research.for additional guidance regarding how the provisions apply to nih grant programs, please contact the scientific/research contact that is identified in section vii under agency contacts of this foa. hhs provides general guidance to recipients of ffa on meeting their legal obligation to take reasonable steps to provide meaningful access to their programs by persons with limited english proficiency. please see https://www.hhs.gov/civil-rights/for-individuals/special-topics/limited-english-proficiency/index.html. the hhs office for civil rights also provides guidance on complying with civil rights laws enforced by hhs. please see https://www.hhs.gov/civil-rights/for-individuals/section-1557/index.html; and https://www.hhs.gov/civil-rights/for-providers/laws-regulations-guidance/index.html. recipients of ffa also have specific legal obligations for serving qualified individuals with disabilities. please see https://www.hhs.gov/civil-rights/for-individuals/disability/index.html. please contact the hhs office for civil rights for more information about obligations and prohibitions under federal civil rights laws at https://www.hhs.gov/ocr/about-us/contact-us/index.html or call 1-800-368-1019 or tdd 1-800-537-7697. also note it is an hhs departmental goal to ensure access to quality, culturally competent care, including long-term services and supports, for vulnerable populations. for further guidance on providing culturally and linguistically appropriate services, recipients should review the national standards for culturally and linguistically appropriate services in health and health care at http://minorityhealth.hhs.gov/omh/browse.aspx?lvl=2&lvlid=53.in accordance with the statutory provisions contained in section 872 of the duncan hunter national defense authorization act of fiscal year 2009 (public law 110-417), nih awards will be subject to the federal awardee performance and integrity information system (fapiis) requirements. fapiis requires federal award making officials to review and consider information about an applicant in the designated integrity and performance system (currently fapiis) prior to making an award. an applicant, at its option, may review information in the designated integrity and performance systems accessible through fapiis and comment on any information about itself that a federal agency previously entered and is currently in fapiis. the federal awarding agency will consider any comments by the applicant, in addition to other information in fapiis, in making a judgement about the applicant’s integrity, business ethics, and record of performance under federal awards when completing the review of risk posed by applicants as described in 45 cfr part 75.205 “federal awarding agency review of risk posed by applicants.” this provision will apply to all nih grants and cooperative agreements except fellowships.when multiple years are involved, awardees will be required to submit the research performance progress report (rppr) annually and financial statements as required in the nih grants policy statement. the supplemental instructions for individual career development (k) rpprs must be followed. the mentor’s report must include an annual evaluation statement of the candidate’s progress.a final rppr, invention statement, and the expenditure data portion of the federal financial report are required for closeout of an award, as described in the nih grants policy statement.the federal funding accountability and transparency act of 2006 (transparency act), includes a requirement for awardees of federal grants to report information about first-tier subawards and executive compensation under federal assistance awards issued in fy2011 or later. all awardees of applicable nih grants and cooperative agreements are required to report to the federal subaward reporting system (fsrs) available at www.fsrs.gov on all subawards over $25,000. see the nih grants policy statement for additional information on this reporting requirement.in accordance with the regulatory requirements provided at 45 cfr 75.113 and appendix xii to 45 cfr part 75, recipients that have currently active federal grants, cooperative agreements, and procurement contracts from all federal awarding agencies with a cumulative total value greater than $10,000,000 for any period of time during the period of performance of a federal award, must report and maintain the currency of information reported in the system for award management (sam) about civil, criminal, and administrative proceedings in connection with the award or performance of a federal award that reached final disposition within the most recent five-year period. the recipient must also make semiannual disclosures regarding such proceedings. proceedings information will be made publicly available in the designated integrity and performance system (currently fapiis). this is a statutory requirement under section 872 of public law 110-417, as amended (41 u.s.c. 2313). as required by section 3010 of public law 111-212, all information posted in the designated integrity and performance system on or after april 15, 2011, except past performance reviews required for federal procurement contracts, will be publicly available. full reporting requirements and procedures are found in appendix xii to 45 cfr part 75 – award term and conditions for recipient integrity and performance matters.in carrying out its stewardship of human resource-related programs, the nih may request information essential to an assessment of the effectiveness of this program from databases and from participants themselves. participants may be contacted after the completion of this award for periodic updates on various aspects of their employment history, publications, support from research grants or contracts, honors and awards, professional activities, and other information helpful in evaluating the impact of the program.we encourage inquiries concerning this funding opportunity and welcome the opportunity to answer questions from potential applicants.era service desk (questions regarding assist, era commons, application errors and warnings, documenting system problems that threaten submission by the due date, and post submission issues) finding help online: http://grants.nih.gov/support/ (preferred method of contact)telephone: 301-402-7469 or 866-504-9552 (toll free)grantsinfo (questions regarding application instructions, application processes, and nih grant resources) email: grantsinfo@nih.gov (preferred method of contact)telephone: 301-637-3015grants.gov customer support (questions regarding grants.gov registration and workspace) contact center telephone: 800-518-4726 email: support@grants.govstephen korn, ph.d. national institute of neurological disorders and stroke (ninds) email: korns@ninds.nih.governest lyons, ph.d. national institute of neurological disorders and stroke (ninds) telephone: 301-496-9223 email: lyonse@ninds.nih.govchief grants management officer national institute of neurological disorders and stroke (ninds) email: chiefgrantsmanagementofficer@ninds.nih.govrecently issued trans-nih policy notices may affect your application submission. a full list of policy notices published by nih is provided in the nih guide for grants and contracts. all awards are subject to the terms and conditions, cost principles, and other considerations described in the nih grants policy statement.awards are made under the authorization of sections 301 and 405 of the public health service act as amended (42 usc 241 and 284) and under federal regulations 42 cfr part 52 and 45 cfr part 75. weekly toc for this announcement nih funding opportunities and noticesnote: for help accessing pdf, rtf, ms word, excel, powerpoint, audio or video files, see help downloading files.