Extracellular RNA carrier subclasses in processes relevant to Substance Use Disorders or HIV infection (R01- Clinical Trial Not Allowed)
https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/pa-files/PAR-20-147.html
national institute on drug abuse (nida)reissue of par-17-250not-od-23-012 reminder: forms-h grant application forms and instructions must be used for due dates on or after january 25, 2023 - new grant application instructions now available not-od-22-190 - adjustments to nih and ahrq grant application due dates between september 22 and september 30, 2022 october 28, 2021 - reminder: forms-g grant application forms & instructions must be used for due dates on or after january 25, 2022 - new grant application instructions now available. see notice not-od-22-018.september 13, 2021 - updates to the non-discrimination legal requirements for nih recipients. see notice not-od-21-181. august 5, 2021 - new nih "forms-g" grant application forms and instructions coming for due dates on or after january 25, 2022. see notice not-od-21-169.august 5, 2021 - update: notification of upcoming change in federal-wide unique entity identifier requirements. see notice not-od-21-170april 20, 2021 - expanding requirement for era commons ids to all senior/key personnel. see notice not-od-21-109august 23, 2019- clarifying competing application instructions and notice of publication of frequently asked questions (faqs) regarding proposed human fetal tissue research. see notice not-od-19-137par-20-148, r21 exploratory/developmental grant93.279the purpose of this foa is to encourage research investigating the roles of extracellular rna (exrna) carrier subclasses in biological processes relevant to substance use disorders (suds) and/or hiv infection, latency, or pathogenesis in the cns. applicants may propose to investigate biological mechanisms involving exrna carrier subclasses, or propose to develop improved technologies to investigate extracellular vesicles or other exrna carriers.march 25, 2020not applicable.all applications are due by 5:00 pm local time of applicant organization. all types of non-aids applications allowed for this funding opportunity announcement are due on the listed date(s).applicants are encouraged to apply early to allow adequate time to make any corrections to errors found in the application during the submission process by the due date.all applications are due by 5:00 pm local time of applicant organization. all types of aids and aids-related applications allowed for this funding opportunity announcement are due on the listed date(s).applicants are encouraged to apply early to allow adequate time to make any corrections to errors found in the application during the submission process by the due date.standard dates applyconformance to all requirements (both in the application guide and the foa) is required and strictly enforced. applicants must read and follow all application instructions in the application guide as well as any program-specific instructions noted in section iv. when the program-specific instructions deviate from those in the application guide, follow the program-specific instructions.applications that do not comply with these instructions may be delayed or not accepted for review.there are several options available to submit your application through grants.gov to nih and department of health and human services partners. you must use one of these submission options to access the application forms for this opportunity.backgroundcirculating extracellular rnas (exrnas) can function both systematically and locally in intercellular communication. exrnas may be transported in body fluids via carrier vehicles such as extracellular vesicles (evs), ribonucleoproteins (rnps), and lipoproteins (lpps). these distinct carriers protect exrnas from degradation and are thought to contribute to the biodistribution, uptake, and functional impact of exrnas in target cells. evs and other exrna carriers may interact with specific cell types to deliver nucleic acid, protein, lipid, and/or other cargoes to alter cellular phenotypes. exrna carriers from body fluids such as blood, cerebrospinal fluid, urine, saliva, semen, breast milk, and amniotic fluid may provide useful biomarkers for a variety of human diseases including cns disorders. also, exrna carriers may be useful for in vivo targeting of cargoes such as nucleic acids or small molecules of therapeutic value to specific organs or cell types.in the nervous system, evs can function in neuronal-glial communication, synaptic plasticity, immune surveillance, or as endocannabinoid carriers. however, the roles of evs and other exrna carriers in cns disorders and substance use disorders (suds) have not been well characterized mechanistically. understanding exrna carrier dynamics and cargoes across the trajectory of addiction may help to identify useful biomarkers for diagnosing: 1) drug use history (the type, quantity, and/or frequency of drug use), 2) the stage/trajectory of addiction (e.g. escalation, withdrawal, incubation, craving, relapse), or 3) both.some viruses are known to exploit the endogenous ev machinery during budding and infection. however, the extent to which evs, other exrna carriers, or host cellular machinery involved in exrna carrier biogenesis and function may contribute to hiv infection, latency, or pathogenesis in the cns is not fully understood.research objectivesthe purpose of this foa is to encourage research investigating the roles of exrna carrier subclasses in biological processes relevant to suds or hiv infection, latency, or pathogenesis in the cns. applicants may propose to investigate biological mechanisms involving exrna carrier subclasses, or propose to develop improved technologies to understand extracellular vesicles or other exrna carriers.for proposed projects relevant to suds, applicants are expected to meet the following two criteria: 1) the major thrust of the application should involve one or more exrna carriers or any associated biological machinery; and 2) at least one aim or sub-aim should involve exposure to addictive substances, or analysis of samples from patients with substance use or suds. addictive substances of interest include: nicotine, cocaine, stimulants, opioids, prescription drugs, cannabinoids, or use of multiple substances (including alcohol). applications focused solely on alcohol exposure should not apply through this foa. project teams should include researchers with expertise in both exrna carriers and in suds.in the case of hiv applications, projects should be primarily focused on hiv in the cns, and may include an aim or sub-aim relevant to suds. project teams should include researchers with expertise in both exrna carriers and hiv infection, latency, or pathogenesis in the cns.applicants with pilot preliminary data may wish to apply to this r01 foa. high risk/high payoff projects that lack pilot preliminary data or are more focused on technology development are most appropriate for the companion r21 foa.the choice of biological system for the proposed investigations should be well justified. applicants may propose studies that investigate body fluids or tissues from human patients, primates, or rodents. primary cells, cell lines, organoids, or other systems may also be proposed for investigation, if appropriately justified. patient samples should be well characterized for stage/trajectory of sud, type(s) of drug used, co-occurring conditions, gender, and age.applicants focused on behavioral assessments in mammals should ensure that they include one or more behavioral assays of drug reward and/or reinforcement (e.g. conditioned place preference, self-administration, compulsive drug seeking, or drug seeking in the face of negative consequences).some relevant scientific questions that could be investigated include, but are not limited to, the following:sud-relevant biological processeshiv-relevant biological processes, biomarkers, therapeuticsexrna carrier tool and technology developmentbiosignature- or therapeutic-relevantgrant: a support mechanism providing money, property, or both to an eligible entity to carry out an approved project or activity.the oer glossary and the sf424 (r&r) application guide provide details on these application types. only those application types listed here are allowed for this foa.need help determining whether you are doing a clinical trial?the number of awards is contingent upon nih appropriations and the submission of a sufficient number of meritorious applications.the scope of the proposed project should determine the project period. the maximum project period is 5 years.higher education institutionsthe following types of higher education institutions are always encouraged to apply for nih support as public or private institutions of higher education:nonprofits other than institutions of higher educationfor-profit organizationsgovernmentsnon-domestic (non-u.s.) entities (foreign institutions) are eligible to apply.non-domestic (non-u.s.) components of u.s. organizations are eligible to apply.foreign components, as defined in the nih grants policy statement, are allowed.applicant organizationsapplicant organizations must complete and maintain the following registrations as described in the sf 424 (r&r) application guide to be eligible to apply for or receive an award. all registrations must be completed prior to the application being submitted. registration can take 6 weeks or more, so applicants should begin the registration process as soon as possible. the nih policy on late submission of grant applications states that failure to complete registrations in advance of a due date is not a valid reason for a late submission.program directors/principal investigators (pd(s)/pi(s))all pd(s)/pi(s) must have an era commons account. pd(s)/pi(s) should work with their organizational officials to either create a new account or to affiliate their existing account with the applicant organization in era commons. if the pd/pi is also the organizational signing official, they must have two distinct era commons accounts, one for each role. obtaining an era commons account can take up to 2 weeks.for institutions/organizations proposing multiple pds/pis, visit the multiple program director/principal investigator policy and submission details in the senior/key person profile (expanded) component of the sf424 (r&r) application guide.this foa does not require cost sharing as defined in the nih grants policy statement. number of applicationsthe nih will not accept duplicate or highly overlapping applications under review at the same time. this means that the nih will not accept:the application forms package specific to this opportunity must be accessed through assist, grants.gov workspace or an institutional system-to-system solution. links to apply using assist or grants.gov workspace are available in part 1 of this foa. see your administrative office for instructions if you plan to use an institutional system-to-system solution.note: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023, the data management and sharing (dms) plan will be attached in the other plan(s) attachment in forms-h and subsequent application forms packages. for due dates on or before january 24, 2023, the data sharing plan and genomic data sharing plan gds) will continue to be attached in the resource sharing plan attachment in forms-g application forms packages.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.other plan(s):note: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023, the data management and sharing plan will be attached in the other plan(s) attachment in forms-h and subsequent application forms packages. for due dates on or before january 24, 2023, the data sharing plan and genomic data sharing plan gds) will continue to be attached in the resource sharing plan attachment in forms-g application forms packages.all applicants planning research (funded or conducted in whole or in part by nih) that results in the generation of scientific data are required to comply with the instructions for the data management and sharing plan. all applications, regardless of the amount of direct costs requested for any one year, must address a data management and sharing plan.in the research strategy section, please be sure to address the following items:the following modifications also apply:if you answered “yes” to the question “are human subjects involved?” on the r&r other project information form, you must include at least one human subjects study record using the study record: phs human subjects and clinical trials information form or delayed onset study record.study record: phs human subjects and clinical trials informationall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.note: delayed onset does not apply to a study that can be described but will not start immediately (i.e., delayed start).all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.foreign (non-u.s.) institutions must follow policies described in the nih grants policy statement, and procedures for foreign institutions described throughout the sf424 (r&r) application guide.see part 1. section iii.1 for information regarding the requirement for obtaining a unique entity identifier and for completing and maintaining active registrations in system for award management (sam), nato commercial and government entity (ncage) code (if applicable), era commons, and grants.govpart i. overview information contains information about key dates and times. applicants are encouraged to submit applications before the due date to ensure they have time to make any application corrections that might be necessary for successful submission. when a submission date falls on a weekend or federal holiday, the application deadline is automatically extended to the next business day.organizations must submit applications to grants.gov (the online portal to find and apply for grants across all federal agencies). applicants must then complete the submission process by tracking the status of the application in the era commons, nih’s electronic system for grants administration. nih and grants.gov systems check the application against many of the application instructions upon submission. errors must be corrected and a changed/corrected application must be submitted to grants.gov on or before the application due date and time. if a changed/corrected application is submitted after the deadline, the application will be considered late. applications that miss the due date and time are subjected to the nih policy on late application submission.applicants are responsible for viewing their application before the due date in the era commons to ensure accurate and successful submission.information on the submission process and a definition of on-time submission are provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.this initiative is not subject to intergovernmental review.all nih awards are subject to the terms and conditions, cost principles, and other considerations described in the nih grants policy statement.pre-award costs are allowable only as described in the nih grants policy statement.applications must be submitted electronically following the instructions described in the sf424 (r&r) application guide. paper applications will not be accepted.applicants must complete all required registrations before the application due date. section iii. eligibility information contains information about registration.for assistance with your electronic application or for more information on the electronic submission process, visit how to apply – application guide. if you encounter a system issue beyond your control that threatens your ability to complete the submission process on-time, you must follow the dealing with system issues guidance. for assistance with application submission, contact the application submission contacts in section vii.important reminders:all pd(s)/pi(s) must include their era commons id in the credential field of the senior/key person profile component of the sf424(r&r) application package. failure to register in the commons and to include a valid pd/pi commons id in the credential field will prevent the successful submission of an electronic application to nih. see section iii of this foa for information on registration requirements.the applicant organization must ensure that the duns number it provides on the application is the same number used in the organization’s profile in the era commons and for the system for award management. additional information may be found in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.see more tips for avoiding common errors.upon receipt, applications will be evaluated for completeness and compliance with application instructions by the center for scientific review, nih. applications that are incomplete or non-compliant will not be reviewed.applicants requesting $500,000 or more in direct costs in any year (excluding consortium f&a) must contact a scientific/ research contact at least 6 weeks before submitting the application and follow the policy on the acceptance for review of unsolicited applications that request $500,000 or more in direct costs as described in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.note: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023, the data sharing plan and genomic data sharing plan (gds) as part of the resource sharing plan will not be evaluated at time of review.only the review criteria described below will be considered in the review process. applications submitted to the nih in support of the nih mission are evaluated for scientific and technical merit through the nih peer review system. significancedoes the project address an important problem or a critical barrier to progress in the field? is the prior research that serves as the key support for the proposed project rigorous? if the aims of the project are achieved, how will scientific knowledge, technical capability, and/or clinical practice be improved? how will successful completion of the aims change the concepts, methods, technologies, treatments, services, or preventative interventions that drive this field?specific to this foa:will the proposed project dramatically improve our understanding of the role of one or more exrna carriers in a process relevant to substance abuse disorders or hiv infection in the cns? if a new technology will be developed, will it significantly improve our ability to understand the role of exrna carriers in sud- or hiv-relevant processes? if use of exrna carriers as a biomarker for chronic drug exposure or other sud-relevant phenotypes is proposed, does the proposed biomarker have the potential to dramatically change the way we diagnose or treat substance abuse? if use of exrna carriers as a therapeutic to treat suds is proposed, does the proposed therapeutic have the potential to dramatically change the way we diagnose or treat substance use disorders? investigator(s)are the pd(s)/pi(s), collaborators, and other researchers well suited to the project? if early stage investigators or those in the early stages of independent careers, do they have appropriate experience and training? if established, have they demonstrated an ongoing record of accomplishments that have advanced their field(s)? if the project is collaborative or multi-pd/pi, do the investigators have complementary and integrated expertise; are their leadership approach, governance and organizational structure appropriate for the project?specific to this foa:does the investigative team have expertise in exrna carriers? does the investigative team have expertise in sud-relevant research, if proposed? does the investigative team have expertise in hiv-relevant research, if proposed? innovationdoes the application challenge and seek to shift current research or clinical practice paradigms by utilizing novel theoretical concepts, approaches or methodologies, instrumentation, or interventions? are the concepts, approaches or methodologies, instrumentation, or interventions novel to one field of research or novel in a broad sense? is a refinement, improvement, or new application of theoretical concepts, approaches or methodologies, instrumentation, or interventions proposed? approachare the overall strategy, methodology, and analyses well-reasoned and appropriate to accomplish the specific aims of the project? have the investigators included plans to address weaknesses in the rigor of prior research that serves as the key support for the proposed project? have the investigators presented strategies to ensure a robust and unbiased approach, as appropriate for the work proposed? are potential problems, alternative strategies, and benchmarks for success presented? if the project is in the early stages of development, will the strategy establish feasibility and will particularly risky aspects be managed? have the investigators presented adequate plans to address relevant biological variables, such as sex, for studies in vertebrate animals or human subjects?if the project involves human subjects and/or nih-defined clinical research, are the plans to address 1) the protection of human subjects from research risks, and 2) inclusion (or exclusion) of individuals on the basis of sex/gender, race, and ethnicity, as well as the inclusion or exclusion of individuals of all ages (including children and older adults), justified in terms of the scientific goals and research strategy proposed? environmentwill the scientific environment in which the work will be done contribute to the probability of success? are the institutional support, equipment and other physical resources available to the investigators adequate for the project proposed? will the project benefit from unique features of the scientific environment, subject populations, or collaborative arrangements? protections for human subjectsfor research that involves human subjects but does not involve one of thecategories of research that are exempt under 45 cfr part 46, the committee will evaluate the justification for involvement of human subjects and the proposed protections from research risk relating to their participation according to the following five review criteria: 1) risk to subjects, 2) adequacy of protection against risks, 3) potential benefits to the subjects and others, 4) importance of the knowledge to be gained, and 5) data and safety monitoring for clinical trials.for research that involves human subjects and meets the criteria for one or more of the categories of research that are exempt under 45 cfr part 46, the committee will evaluate: 1) the justification for the exemption, 2) human subjects involvement and characteristics, and 3) sources of materials. for additional information on review of the human subjects section, please refer to the guidelines for the review of human subjects. inclusion of women, minorities, and individuals across the lifespanwhen the proposed project involves human subjects and/or nih-defined clinical research, the committee will evaluate the proposed plans for the inclusion (or exclusion) of individuals on the basis of sex/gender, race, and ethnicity, as well as the inclusion (or exclusion) of individuals of all ages (including children and older adults) to determine if it is justified in terms of the scientific goals and research strategy proposed. for additional information on review of the inclusion section, please refer to the guidelines for the review of inclusion in clinical research. vertebrate animalsthe committee will evaluate the involvement of live vertebrate animals as part of the scientific assessment according to the following criteria: (1) description of proposed procedures involving animals, including species, strains, ages, sex, and total number to be used; (2) justifications for the use of animals versus alternative models and for the appropriateness of the species proposed; (3) interventions to minimize discomfort, distress, pain and injury; and (4) justification for euthanasia method if not consistent with the avma guidelines for the euthanasia of animals. reviewers will assess the use of chimpanzees as they would any other application proposing the use of vertebrate animals. for additional information on review of the vertebrate animals section, please refer to the worksheet for review of the vertebrate animal section. biohazardsreviewers will assess whether materials or procedures proposed are potentially hazardous to research personnel and/or the environment, and if needed, determine whether adequate protection is proposed. resubmissionsfor resubmissions, the committee will evaluate the application as now presented, taking into consideration the responses to comments from the previous scientific review group and changes made to the project. renewalsfor renewals, the committee will consider the progress made in the last funding period. revisionsfor revisions, the committee will consider the appropriateness of the proposed expansion of the scope of the project. if the revision application relates to a specific line of investigation presented in the original application that was not recommended for approval by the committee, then the committee will consider whether the responses to comments from the previous scientific review group are adequate and whether substantial changes are clearly evident.note: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023, the data sharing plan and genomic data sharing plan (gds) as part of the resource sharing plan will not be evaluated at time of review. applications from foreign organizationsreviewers will assess whether the project presents special opportunities for furthering research programs through the use of unusual talent, resources, populations, or environmental conditions that exist in other countries and either are not readily available in the united states or augment existing u.s. resources. select agent researchreviewers will assess the information provided in this section of the application, including 1) the select agent(s) to be used in the proposed research, 2) the registration status of all entities where select agent(s) will be used, 3) the procedures that will be used to monitor possession use and transfer of select agent(s), and 4) plans for appropriate biosafety, biocontainment, and security of the select agent(s). resource sharing plansreviewers will comment on whether the following resource sharing plans, or the rationale for not sharing the following types of resources, are reasonable: (1) data sharing plan; (2) sharing model organisms; and (3) genomic data sharing plan (gds). authentication of key biological and/or chemical resources:for projects involving key biological and/or chemical resources, reviewers will comment on the brief plans proposed for identifying and ensuring the validity of those resources. budget and period of supportreviewers will consider whether the budget and the requested period of support are fully justified and reasonable in relation to the proposed research.applications will be evaluated for scientific and technical merit by (an) appropriate scientific review group(s) convened by csr, in accordance with nih peer review policy and procedures, using the stated review criteria. assignment to a scientific review group will be shown in the era commons.information regarding the disposition of applications is available in the nih grants policy statement.a formal notification in the form of a notice of award (noa) will be provided to the applicant organization for successful applications. the noa signed by the grants management officer is the authorizing document and will be sent via email to the grantee’s business official.awardees must comply with any funding restrictions described in section iv.5. funding restrictions. selection of an application for award is not an authorization to begin performance. any costs incurred before receipt of the noa are at the recipient's risk. these costs may be reimbursed only to the extent considered allowable pre-award costs.any application awarded in response to this foa will be subject to terms and conditions found on the award conditions and information for nih grants website. this includes any recent legislation and policy applicable to awards that is highlighted on this website.institutional review board or independent ethics committee approval: grantee institutions must ensure that protocols are reviewed by their irb or iec. to help ensure the safety of participants enrolled in nih-funded studies, the awardee must provide nih copies of documents related to all major changes in the status of ongoing protocols.all nih grant and cooperative agreement awards include the nih grants policy statement as part of the noa. for these terms of award, see the nih grants policy statement part ii: terms and conditions of nih grant awards, subpart a: general and part ii: terms and conditions of nih grant awards, subpart b: terms and conditions for specific types of grants, grantees, and activities. more information is provided at award conditions and information for nih grants.recipients of federal financial assistance (ffa) from hhs must administer their programs in compliance with federal civil rights laws that prohibit discrimination on the basis of race, color, national origin, disability, age and, in some circumstances, religion, conscience, and sex. this includes ensuring programs are accessible to persons with limited english proficiency. the hhs office for civil rights provides guidance on complying with civil rights laws enforced by hhs. please see https://www.hhs.gov/civil-rights/for-providers/provider-obligations/index.html and http://www.hhs.gov/ocr/civilrights/understanding/section1557/index.html.hhs recognizes that research projects are often limited in scope for many reasons that are nondiscriminatory, such as the principal investigator’s scientific interest, funding limitations, recruitment requirements, and other considerations. thus, criteria in research protocols that target or exclude certain populations are warranted where nondiscriminatory justifications establish that such criteria are appropriate with respect to the health or safety of the subjects, the scientific study design, or the purpose of the research. for additional guidance regarding how the provisions apply to nih grant programs, please contact the scientific/research contact that is identified in section vii under agency contacts of this foa.please contact the hhs office for civil rights for more information about obligations and prohibitions under federal civil rights laws at https://www.hhs.gov/ocr/about-us/contact-us/index.html or call 1-800-368-1019 or tdd 1-800-537-7697.in accordance with the statutory provisions contained in section 872 of the duncan hunter national defense authorization act of fiscal year 2009 (public law 110-417), nih awards will be subject to the federal awardee performance and integrity information system (fapiis) requirements. fapiis requires federal award making officials to review and consider information about an applicant in the designated integrity and performance system (currently fapiis) prior to making an award. an applicant, at its option, may review information in the designated integrity and performance systems accessible through fapiis and comment on any information about itself that a federal agency previously entered and is currently in fapiis. the federal awarding agency will consider any comments by the applicant, in addition to other information in fapiis, in making a judgement about the applicant’s integrity, business ethics, and record of performance under federal awards when completing the review of risk posed by applicants as described in 45 cfr part 75.205 “federal awarding agency review of risk posed by applicants.” this provision will apply to all nih grants and cooperative agreements except fellowships.data management and sharingnote: the nih policy for data management and sharing is effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023.consistent with the nih policy for data management and sharing, when data management and sharing is applicable to the award, recipients will be required to adhere to the data management and sharing requirements as outlined in the nih grants policy statement. upon the approval of a data management and sharing plan, it is required for recipients to implement the plan as described.the federal funding accountability and transparency act of 2006 (transparency act), includes a requirement for awardees of federal grants to report information about first-tier subawards and executive compensation under federal assistance awards issued in fy2011 or later. all awardees of applicable nih grants and cooperative agreementsare required to report to the federal subaward reporting system (fsrs) available at www.fsrs.gov on all subawards over $25,000. see the nih grants policy statement for additional information on this reporting requirement.in accordance with the regulatory requirements provided at 45 cfr 75.113 and appendix xii to 45 cfr part 75, recipients that have currently active federal grants, cooperative agreements, and procurement contracts from all federal awarding agencies with a cumulative total value greater than $10,000,000 for any period of time during the period of performance of a federal award, must report and maintain the currency of information reported in the system for award management (sam)about civil, criminal, and administrative proceedings in connection with the award or performance of a federal award that reached final disposition within the most recent five-year period. the recipient must also make semiannual disclosures regarding such proceedings.proceedings information will be made publicly available in the designated integrity and performance system (currently fapiis). this is a statutory requirement under section 872 of public law 110-417, as amended (41 u.s.c. 2313). as required by section 3010 of public law 111-212, all information posted in the designated integrity and performance system on or after april 15, 2011, except past performance reviews required for federal procurement contracts, will be publicly available. full reporting requirements and procedures are found in appendix xii to 45 cfr part 75 – award term and conditions for recipient integrity and performance matters.finding help online:http://grants.nih.gov/support/(preferred method of contact) telephone: 301-402-7469 or 866-504-9552 (toll free)general grants information (questions regarding application instructions, application processes, and nih grant resources) email:grantsinfo@nih.gov(preferred method of contact) telephone: 301-637-3015grants.gov customer support(questions regarding grants.gov registration and workspace) contact center telephone: 800-518-4726 email:support@grants.govjohn satterlee ph.d. national institute on drug abuse (nida) telephone: 301-435-1020 email: satterleej@nida.nih.govaida vasquez national institute on drug abuse (nida) telephone: 301- 480-2154 email: vasquez@mail.nih.gov weekly toc for this announcement nih funding opportunities and noticesnote: for help accessing pdf, rtf, ms word, excel, powerpoint, audio or video files, see help downloading files.