Center for Inherited Disease Research (CIDR) High Throughput Sequencing and Genotyping Resource Access (X01)
https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/pa-files/PAR-20-230.html
national institutes of health (nih)national human genome research institute (nhgri)this is an nih-wide initiative that is being administered by nhgri on behalf of nih.center for inherited disease research (cidr) high throughput sequencing and genotyping resource access (x01 clinical trial not allowed)x01 resource access awardreissue of par-17-269par-20-230nonesee section iii. 3. additional information on eligibility.93.172the center for inherited disease research (cidr) high-throughput genotyping, sequencing and supporting statistical genetics services are designed to aid the identification of genes or genetic modifications that contribute to human health and disease or to enhance existing collections of well-phenotyped specimens by the addition of genotype or next-generation sequence data. the laboratory specializes in genomic services that cannot be efficiently carried out in individual investigator laboratories. cidr provides the most up-to-date platforms, services and statistical genetic support. this is an nih-wide initiative that is managed by nhgri. information about current services offered can be accessed via: http://www.cidr.jhmi.edu.june 11, 2020june 15, 2020not applicableapplications are accepted by continuous receipt.all applications are due by 5:00 pm local time of applicant organization. all types of non-aids applications allowed for this funding opportunity announcement are due on the listed date(s)applicants are encouraged to apply early to allow adequate time to make any corrections to errors found in the application during the submission process by the due date.not applicableapplications will be reviewed no later than 120 days after receipt of the application, with one meeting in each of the following windows: september 2020; november 2020; january 2021; march 2021; may 2021; july 2021; september 2021; november 2021; january 2022; march 2022; may 2022; july 2022; september 2022; november 2022; january 2023; march 2023; may 2023; july 2023.not applicable.october 2020; december 2020; february 2021; april 2021; june 2021; august 2021; october 2021; december 2021; february 2022; april 2022; june 2022; august 2022; october 2022; december 2022; february 2023; april 2023; june 2023; august 2023.july 9, 2023not applicableit is critical that applicants follow the research (r) instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, except where instructed to do otherwise (in this foa or in a notice from the nih guide for grants and contracts). conformance to all requirements (both in the application guide and the foa) is required and strictly enforced. applicants must read and follow all application instructions in the application guide as well as any program-specific instructions noted in section iv. when the program-specific instructions deviate from those in the application guide, follow the program-specific instructions. applications that do not comply with these instructions may be delayed or not accepted for review.there are several options available to submit your application through grants.gov to nih and department of health and human services partners. you must use one of these submission options to access the application forms for this opportunity.part 1. overview information part 2. full text of the announcementsection i. funding opportunity description section ii. award information section iii. eligibility information section iv. application and submission information section v. application review information section vi. award administration information section vii. agency contacts section viii. other informationpurposewith continued advances in our ability to identify and quantitate human genetic variation, there is great interest in applying state-of-the-art genomic technology to identify genetic elements that contribute to human health and disease. for many studies, this requires high-throughput technologies that cannot be efficiently carried out in individual investigator laboratories.this foa allows nih-supported investigators to apply for access to high-throughput sequencing, genotyping, and epigenetic assay services carried out by cidr. the services provided include careful quality control and data cleaning. some statistical analysis services are also offered. detailed information about current cidr offerings can be found at http://www.cidr.jhmi.edu.specific areas of research interestthe foa seeks projects that show promise of identifying genetic or epigenetic elements important to human health and disease, or that wish to include high quality genotype or next generation sequence data to existing collections of well phenotyped specimens. for gene discovery projects there should be strong evidence that the project proposed will have sufficient power to detect genetic or epigenetic factors affecting the trait under study. appropriate projects would include but are not limited to: whole-genome, whole-exome and custom-targeted next-generation sequencing; human genome wide association studies (gwas); high-throughput custom snp genotyping; and analyses of dna methylation. although the main focus of this foa is on human studies, some model organism studies are also appropriate.projects designed to generate large-scale genotyping or sequencing data from existing collections of human samples will also be considered. applications for this class of studies need not be solely focused on testing genetic hypotheses, for example, genotyping or sequencing of large, well-phenotyped collections of samples for which gene discovery is not the primary goal. in such a study, genetic data could be used to stratify study participants into more refined groups. this could be especially advantageous for clinical trials or natural history studies. such projects must result in data that will be of broad utility to the community.applications are expected to propose data-sharing plans according to the nih genomic data sharing policy (https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/notice-files/not-od-14-124.html and https://osp.od.nih.gov/scientific-sharing/genomic-data-sharing/) consistent with achieving the goals of the program.see section viii. other information for award authorities and regulations.other: a mechanism that is not a grant or cooperative agreement. examples include access to research resources or pre-applications.new resubmissionthe oer glossary and the sf424 (r&r) application guide provide details on these application types. only those application types listed here are allowed for this foa.not allowed: only accepting applications that do not propose clinical trials.need help determining whether you are doing a clinical trial?the number of awards is contingent upon nih appropriations and the submission of a sufficient number of meritorious applications.not applicable: there is no budget associated with x01 resource access awards.the scope of the proposed project should determine the project period. the maximum project period is 5 years.nih grants policies as described in the nih grants policy statement will apply to the applications submitted and awards made from this foa.higher education institutionsthe following types of higher education institutions are always encouraged to apply for nih support as public or private institutions of higher education:o hispanic-serving institutionso historically black colleges and universities (hbcus)o tribally controlled colleges and universities (tccus)o alaska native and native hawaiian serving institutionso asian american native american pacific islander serving institutions (aanapisis)nonprofits other than institutions of higher educationfor-profit organizationsgovernmentsothernon-domestic (non-u.s.) entities (foreign institutions) are eligible to apply. non-domestic (non-u.s.) components of u.s. organizations are eligible to apply. foreign components, as defined in the nih grants policy statement, are allowed.applicant organizationsapplicant organizations must complete and maintain the following registrations as described in the sf 424 (r&r) application guide to be eligible to apply for or receive an award. all registrations must be completed prior to the application being submitted. registration can take 6 weeks or more, so applicants should begin the registration process as soon as possible. the nih policy on late submission of grant applications states that failure to complete registrations in advance of a due date is not a valid reason for a late submission.program directors/principal investigators (pd(s)/pi(s))all pd(s)/pi(s) must have an era commons account. pd(s)/pi(s) should work with their organizational officials to either create a new account or to affiliate their existing account with the applicant organization in era commons. if the pd/pi is also the organizational signing official, they must have two distinct era commons accounts, one for each role. obtaining an era commons account can take up to 2 weeks.any individual(s) with the skills, knowledge, and resources necessary to carry out the proposed research as the program director(s)/principal investigator(s) (pd(s)/pi(s)) is invited to work with his/her organization to develop an application for support. individuals from underrepresented racial and ethnic groups as well as individuals with disabilities are always encouraged to apply for nih support.for institutions/organizations proposing multiple pds/pis, visit the multiple program director/principal investigator policy and submission details in the senior/key person profile (expanded) component of the sf424 (r&r) application guide.this foa does not require cost sharing as defined in the nih grants policy statement.applicant organizations may submit more than one application, provided that each application is scientifically distinct.the nih will not accept duplicate or highly overlapping applications under review at the same time. this means that the nih will not accept:the application forms package specific to this opportunity must be accessed through assist, grants.gov workspace or an institutional system-to-system solution. links to apply using assist or grants.gov workspace are available in part 1 of this foa. see your administrative office for instructions if you plan to use an institutional system-to-system solution.it is critical that applicants follow the research (r) instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, except where instructed in this funding opportunity announcement to do otherwise. conformance to the requirements in the application guide is required and strictly enforced. applications that are out of compliance with these instructions may be delayed or not accepted for review.all page limitations described in the sf424 application guide and the table of page limits must be followed. for this specific foa, the research strategy section is limited to 6 pages.note: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023 a data management and sharing plan is not applicable for this foa.the following section supplements the instructions found in the sf424 (r&r) application guide and should be used for preparing an application to this foa.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.total federal funds requested: enter $0.total federal & non-federal funds: enter $0.estimated program income: enter $0.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.not applicable.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed, with the following additional instructions:specific aims: the specific aims should refer directly to the x01 request and should clearly and concisely describe the potential impact of the proposed research.research strategy:significance:for gene discovery projects:1) explain the public health significance of the trait(s) under study.2) document the evidence for a genetic component of the trait(s) and the likely strength of that component, including the heritability and complexity.3) describe earlier genetic studies on this disorder, and what has been found so far.4) describe known environmental risk factors for the trait(s), and any evidence for gene-environment interactions.5) if this request is a direct follow up of an earlier study, describe those results.for projects to enhance existing collections of specimens:1) provide a detailed description of the specimens, including the phenotypic and environmental covariates available.2) describe how the addition of genomic or epigenomic data will enhance the value of the existing study, and how it will impact the overall field of research.for all studies: provide any additional background that supports the value of the high-throughput service(s) requested.innovation and approach:1) study population: clearly describe the study population. include detailed information about how subjects were identified and sampled and the method(s) of phenotypic characterization. for case-control studies, provide inclusion and exclusion criteria and any matching done between cases and controls. describe relevant environmental factors and how they were measured. if the subjects provided for this study are a subset of a family population, explain which individuals were included and how they were selected. highlight special features of the study population that would enhance success. for existing collections of human specimens, describe the phenotypic and environmental covariates available.2) sample information and service(s) requested: in table form, provide: sample description such as case/control status and/or collection site; number of samples included in the study; tissue source of the dna; service requested; and any previous genotyping or sequencing. if data from other subjects will be included in the analysis, add row(s) to describe those samples.sample set(include reference name, case/control status and/or collection site if relevant)number of samplesdna sourceservice requestedprevious genotyping or sequencingabc probands3000blood5mb custom -targeted sequencingillumina omniexpressabc controls3000blood and saliva5mb custom-targeted sequenceillumina omniexpressprovide supporting text that justifies the choice of samples. describe previous genotyping or sequencing done on these subjects. describe the extraction methods used for each dna source and the approximate dna concentrations (see http://www.cidr.jhmi.edu for sample requirements).3) power and effect size: use power analyses to describe the range of effect sizes detectable by the study. address relevant features of the analytic plan, such as the genetic model(s) to be tested, the extent of multiple testing and what significance level would be used for testing. if appropriate, include parameters such as risk allele frequencies and the expected patterns of linkage disequilibrium. if the study design requires separate analysis of subject groups (e.g. phenotypic classes or ancestry groups) provide power analyses for each category. if there is a plan to test for gene-gene or gene-environment effects, address the power to detect these effects.for sequencing studies, provide power calculations that include correction for the number of markers estimated. if there is a plan to sequence a discovery set and then validate via genotyping or custom sequencing, provide power for the validation set.formal power calculations are not required for studies of existing, well-phenotyped samples in which genetic data will be used to enhance the value of the existing data. if sets of specific variants are targeted in the study, the expected frequencies of these variants should be estimated.4) data analyses: provide a thorough plan for data analyses. include: analytical approaches to be used and their justification; plans for quality control analyses; methods to control for possible confounding effects such as genotype and/or phenotype uncertainty; how false positive rates will be controlled in light of multiple testing, etc. if relevant, also discuss how the trait or locus will be localized. for sequencing studies, include methods for variant filtering and follow up. if there is a plan to analyze the data obtained with earlier data, describe your strategy for that process. for sequencing requests, explain plans for filtering the snps detected.describe the role of each team member in the analysis process, and summarize the team's experience with the approaches proposed.5) data management: describe the institutional computing resources available for this study, the type of database that will be used, and how the data will be managed. highlight the team's experience with management of large data sets (especially those similar to the proposed project) beyond information described on the biographical sketch. also describe strategies to maintain data security.6) plans for the next phase: describe plans for follow-up studies, for example, additional genotyping or sequencing and/or functional testing of selected variants.letters of support: if collaborations have been established, include letters of collaboration in the application that document the role of each collaborator. letters should be combined into a single pdf and uploaded via the letters of support attachment. a letter from the sponsoring institute or center documenting permission to apply to this foa should also be included in this sectionresource sharing plan: individuals are required to comply with the instructions for the resource sharing plans as provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, with the following modification: applicants are expected to comply with the nih genomic data sharing (gds) policy. all cidr applications should provide a detailed description of the resource sharing plan. a data dictionary of the phenotypic measures to be shared and a data summary of the number of subjects who have data for each of those measures should be included as part of the resource sharing plan. a sample data dictionary and data summary can be found at: http://www.cidr.jhmi.edu. prior to award, program staff from the sponsoring nih institute may negotiate modifications to the resource sharing plan with the applicant.appendix:only limited appendix materials are allowed. follow all instructions for the appendix as described in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.when involving human subjects research, clinical research, and/or nih-defined clinical trials (and when applicable, clinical trials research experience) follow all instructions for the phs human subjects and clinical trials information form in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, with the following additional instructions:if you answered “yes” to the question “are human subjects involved?” on the r&r other project information form, you must include at least one human subjects study record using the study record: phs human subjects and clinical trials information form or delayed onset study record.study record: phs human subjects and clinical trials informationall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.delayed onset studynote: delayed onset does not apply to a study that can be described but will not start immediately (i.e., delayed start).all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.foreign (non-u.s.) institutions must follow policies described in the nih grants policy statement, and procedures for foreign institutions.see part 1. section iii.1 for information regarding the requirement for obtaining a unique entity identifier and for completing and maintaining active registrations in system for award management (sam), nato commercial and government entity (ncage) code (if applicable), era commons, and grants.govpart i. overview information contains information about key dates and times. applicants are encouraged to submit applications before the due date to ensure they have time to make any application corrections that might be necessary for successful submission. when a submission date falls on a weekend or federal holiday, the application deadline is automatically extended to the next business day.organizations must submit applications to grants.gov (the online portal to find and apply for grants across all federal agencies). applicants must then complete the submission process by tracking the status of the application in the era commons, nih’s electronic system for grants administration. nih and grants.gov systems check the application against many of the application instructions upon submission. errors must be corrected and a changed/corrected application must be submitted to grants.gov on or before the application due date and time. if a changed/corrected application is submitted after the deadline, the application will be considered late. applications that miss the due date and time are subjected to the nih policy on late application submission.applicants are responsible for viewing their application before the due date in the era commons to ensure accurate and successful submission.information on the submission process and a definition of on-time submission are provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.this initiative is not subject to intergovernmental review.all nih awards are subject to the terms and conditions, cost principles, and other considerations described in the nih grants policy statement.pre-award costs are allowable only as described in the nih grants policy statement.not applicable. no funds are involved with this resource access award.applications must be submitted electronically following the instructions described in the sf424 (r&r) application guide. paper applications will not be accepted.applicants must complete all required registrations before the application due date. section iii. eligibility information contains information about registration.for assistance with your electronic application or for more information on the electronic submission process, visit how to apply – application guide. if you encounter a system issue beyond your control that threatens your ability to complete the submission process on-time, you must follow the dealing with system issues guidance. for assistance with application submission, contact the application submission contacts in section vii.important reminders:all pd(s)/pi(s) must include their era commons id in the credential field of the senior/key person profile component of the sf424(r&r) application package. failure to register in the commons and to include a valid pd/pi commons id in the credential field will prevent the successful submission of an electronic application to nih. see section iii of this foa for information on registration requirements.the applicant organization must ensure that the duns number it provides on the application is the same number used in the organization’s profile in the era commons and for the system for award management. additional information may be found in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.see more tips for avoiding common errors.upon receipt, applications will be evaluated for completeness and compliance with application instructions by the center for scientific review, nih. applications that are incomplete or non-compliant will not be reviewed.in order to expedite review, applicants are requested to notify the nhgri referral office by email at barbara.thomas@nih.gov when the application has been submitted. please include the foa number and title, pd/pi name, and title of the application.letters of permission to submit an application:for gene discovery projects, it is expected that applications for access to cidr genotyping and sequencing resources will be linked to a present or future research grant from a participating nih institute or other approved sources of support. all applications must obtain permission from a cidr-supporting nih institute to submit an application in response to this foa. a list of participating institutes and contacts for cidr submission can be found at: https://www.cidr.jhmi.edu/nihliaisons.pdf. if the project is not appropriate for a participating institute, contact the nih liaison at barbara.thomas@nih.gov. it is recommended that you discuss your application with the staff from one of the cidr-supporting nih institutes four to six months in advance of the planned submission. a letter documenting the permission should be included in the application.applicants are required to follow the instructions for post-submission materials, as described in the policy. any instructions provided here are in addition to the instructions in the policy.only the review criteria described below will be considered in the review process.applications submitted to the nih in support of the nih mission are evaluated for scientific and technical merit through the nih peer review system.for this particular announcement, note the following:the x01 resource access program invites eligible institutions to seek access to nih research resources, which are specified in each x01 foa. this includes programs where institutions will request access to submit to the resource (e.g., high throughput screening assays) as well as programs where access to a specific nih research resource is needed to conduct certain research.important factors in the peer review of x01 applications to this foa are the need for, and potential benefit of, gaining access to the resource, strong evidence for a genetic component to the trait under study, detailed information about the subjects and phenotypes collected, plans for analysis, power, and data management, plans for follow-on studies, and the data sharing plan.reviewers will provide an overall impact score to reflect their assessment of the likelihood for the project to exert a sustained, powerful influence on the research field(s) involved, in consideration of the following review criteria and additional review criteria (as applicable for the project proposed).reviewers will consider each of the review criteria below in the determination of scientific merit, and give a separate score for each. an application does not need to be strong in all categories to be judged likely to have major scientific impact. for example, a project that by its nature is not innovative may be essential to advance a field.does the project address an important problem or a critical barrier to progress in the field? is the prior research that serves as the key support for the proposed project rigorous? if the aims of the project are achieved, how will scientific knowledge, technical capability, and/or clinical practice be improved? how will successful completion of the aims change the concepts, methods, technologies, treatments, services, or preventative interventions that drive this field?is the trait under study important to human health? is there strong evidence for a genetic component and documentation of the anticipated size of the genetic effect? does current knowledge about the genetic landscape of this trait support the need for the high-throughput service requested? will the study identify genes or genetic variants important to human disease and/or provide new biological or technical insights? are environmental risk factors for the trait(s) described, including any evidence for gene-environment interactions? if proposing to add genotype or sequence data to an existing collection of human samples, will access to the requested services enhance the value of these samples and be a resource to the broader research community?are the pd(s)/pi(s), collaborators, and other researchers well suited to the project? if early stage investigators or those in the early stages of independent careers, do they have appropriate experience and training? if established, have they demonstrated an ongoing record of accomplishments that have advanced their field(s)? if the project is collaborative or multi-pd/pi, do the investigators have complementary and integrated expertise; are their leadership approach, governance and organizational structure appropriate for the project?is expertise in place for each aspect of the project, including the data management and analysis? is there evidence that the investigators listed will be able to expend the needed effort?does the application challenge and seek to shift current research or clinical practice paradigms by utilizing novel theoretical concepts, approaches or methodologies, instrumentation, or interventions? are the concepts, approaches or methodologies, instrumentation, or interventions novel to one field of research or novel in a broad sense? is a refinement, improvement, or new application of theoretical concepts, approaches or methodologies, instrumentation, or interventions proposed?are the overall strategy, methodology, and analyses well-reasoned and appropriate to accomplish the specific aims of the project? have the investigators included plans to address weaknesses in the rigor of prior research that serves as the key support for the proposed project? have the investigators presented strategies to ensure a robust and unbiased approach, as appropriate for the work proposed? are potential problems, alternative strategies, and benchmarks for success presented? if the project is in the early stages of development, will the strategy establish feasibility and will particularly risky aspects be managed? have the investigators presented adequate plans to address relevant biological variables, such as sex, for studies in vertebrate animals or human subjects?is the study design well chosen? are the genetic services requested the most appropriate for the question addressed? are the phenotypic and environmental measures appropriately chosen and carefully determined? are there appropriate plans for both data analysis and data management? is the sample size sufficient to detect the likely genetic effect(s)? are validation plans in place? are there adequate plans for follow-up to identify specific genes or genetic variant(s) affecting the trait(s) under study?if the project involves human subjects and/or nih-defined clinical research, are the plans to address1) the protection of human subjects from research risks, and2) inclusion (or exclusion) of individuals on the basis of sex/gender, race, and ethnicity, as well as the inclusion or exclusion of individuals of all ages (including children and older adults), justified in terms of the scientific goals and research strategy proposed?will the scientific environment in which the work will be done contribute to the probability of success? are the institutional support, equipment and other physical resources available to the investigators adequate for the project proposed? will the project benefit from unique features of the scientific environment, subject populations, or collaborative arrangements?as applicable for the project proposed, reviewers will evaluate the following additional items while determining scientific and technical merit, and in providing an overall impact score, but will not give separate scores for these items.for research that involves human subjects but does not involve one of the categories of research that are exempt under 45 cfr part 46, the committee will evaluate the justification for involvement of human subjects and the proposed protections from research risk relating to their participation according to the following five review criteria: 1) risk to subjects, 2) adequacy of protection against risks, 3) potential benefits to the subjects and others, 4) importance of the knowledge to be gained, and 5) data and safety monitoring for clinical trials.for research that involves human subjects and meets the criteria for one or more of the categories of research that are exempt under 45 cfr part 46, the committee will evaluate: 1) the justification for the exemption, 2) human subjects involvement and characteristics, and 3) sources of materials. for additional information on review of the human subjects section, please refer to the guidelines for the review of human subjects.when the proposed project involves human subjects and/or nih-defined clinical research, the committee will evaluate the proposed plans for the inclusion (or exclusion) of individuals on the basis of sex/gender, race, and ethnicity, as well as the inclusion (or exclusion) of individuals of all ages (including children and older adults) to determine if it is justified in terms of the scientific goals and research strategy proposed. for additional information on review of the inclusion section, please refer to the guidelines for the review of inclusion in clinical research.the committee will evaluate the involvement of live vertebrate animals as part of the scientific assessment according to the following criteria: (1) description of proposed procedures involving animals, including species, strains, ages, sex, and total number to be used; (2) justifications for the use of animals versus alternative models and for the appropriateness of the species proposed; (3) interventions to minimize discomfort, distress, pain and injury; and (4) justification for euthanasia method if not consistent with the avma guidelines for the euthanasia of animals. reviewers will assess the use of chimpanzees as they would any other application proposing the use of vertebrate animals. for additional information on review of the vertebrate animals section, please refer to the worksheet for review of the vertebrate animal section.reviewers will assess whether materials or procedures proposed are potentially hazardous to research personnel and/or the environment, and if needed, determine whether adequate protection is proposed.for resubmissions, the committee will evaluate the application as now presented, taking into consideration the responses to comments from the previous scientific review group and changes made to the project.not applicable.not applicable.note: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023, the data sharing plan and genomic data sharing plan (gds) as part of the resource sharing plan will not be evaluated at time of review, and a data management and sharing plan is not applicable for this foa.as applicable for the project proposed, reviewers will consider each of the following items, but will not give scores for these items, and should not consider them in providing an overall impact score.reviewers will assess whether the project presents special opportunities for furthering research programs through the use of unusual talent, resources, populations, or environmental conditions that exist in other countries and either are not readily available in the united states or augment existing u.s. resources.reviewers will assess the information provided in this section of the application, including 1) the select agent(s) to be used in the proposed research, 2) the registration status of all entities where select agent(s) will be used, 3) the procedures that will be used to monitor possession use and transfer of select agent(s), and 4) plans for appropriate biosafety, biocontainment, and security of the select agent(s).reviewers will comment on whether the following resource sharing plans, or the rationale for not sharing the following types of resources, are reasonable: (1) data sharing plan; (2) sharing model organisms; and (3) genomic data sharing plan (gds). for this foa, reviewers should comment on the appropriateness of the phenotypic covariates proposed.for projects involving key biological and/or chemical resources, reviewers will comment on the brief plans proposed for identifying and ensuring the validity of those resources.reviewers will consider whether the budget and the requested period of support are fully justified and reasonable in relation to the proposed research.applications will be evaluated for scientific and technical merit by (an) appropriate scientific review group(s) convened by the nhgri scientific review branch, in accordance with nih peer review policy and procedures, using the stated review criteria. assignment to a scientific review group will be shown in the era commons.as part of the scientific peer review, all applications:applications will be assigned on the basis of established phs referral guidelines to the appropriate nih institute or center. applications will compete for available funds with all other recommended applications submitted to this foa. following initial peer review, recommended applications will receive a second level of review by the appropriate national advisory council or board. the following will be considered in making funding decisions:after the peer review of the application is completed, the pd/pi will be able to access his or her summary statement (written critique) via the era commons. refer to part 1 for dates for peer review, advisory council review, and earliest start date.information regarding the disposition of applications is available in the nih grants policy statement.if the application is under consideration for funding, nih will request "just-in-time" information from the applicant as described in the nih grants policy statement.a formal notification in the form of a notice of award (noa) will be provided to the applicant organization for successful applications. the noa signed by the grants management officer is the authorizing document and will be sent via email to the grantee’s business official.awardees must comply with any funding restrictions described in section iv.5. funding restrictions. selection of an application for award is not an authorization to begin performance. any costs incurred before receipt of the noa are at the recipient's risk. these costs may be reimbursed only to the extent considered allowable pre-award costs.any application awarded in response to this foa will be subject to terms and conditions found on the award conditions and information for nih grants website. this includes any recent legislation and policy applicable to awards that is highlighted on this website.institutional review board or independent ethics committee approval: grantee institutions must ensure that protocols are reviewed by their irb or iec. to help ensure the safety of participants enrolled in nih-funded studies, the awardee must provide nih copies of documents related to all major changes in the status of ongoing protocols.all nih grant and cooperative agreement awards include the nih grants policy statement as part of the noa. for these terms of award, see the nih grants policy statement part ii: terms and conditions of nih grant awards, subpart a: general and part ii: terms and conditions of nih grant awards, subpart b: terms and conditions for specific types of grants, grantees, and activities. more information is provided at award conditions and information for nih grants.recipients of federal financial assistance (ffa) from hhs must administer their programs in compliance with federal civil rights laws that prohibit discrimination on the basis of race, color, national origin, disability, age and, in some circumstances, religion, conscience, and sex. this includes ensuring programs are accessible to persons with limited english proficiency. the hhs office for civil rights provides guidance on complying with civil rights laws enforced by hhs. please see https://www.hhs.gov/civil-rights/for-providers/provider-obligations/index.html and http://www.hhs.gov/ocr/civilrights/understanding/section1557/index.html.hhs recognizes that research projects are often limited in scope for many reasons that are nondiscriminatory, such as the principal investigator’s scientific interest, funding limitations, recruitment requirements, and other considerations. thus, criteria in research protocols that target or exclude certain populations are warranted where nondiscriminatory justifications establish that such criteria are appropriate with respect to the health or safety of the subjects, the scientific study design, or the purpose of the research. for additional guidance regarding how the provisions apply to nih grant programs, please contact the scientific/research contact that is identified in section vii under agency contacts of this foa.please contact the hhs office for civil rights for more information about obligations and prohibitions under federal civil rights laws at https://www.hhs.gov/ocr/about-us/contact-us/index.html or call 1-800-368-1019 or tdd 1-800-537-7697.in accordance with the statutory provisions contained in section 872 of the duncan hunter national defense authorization act of fiscal year 2009 (public law 110-417), nih awards will be subject to the federal awardee performance and integrity information system (fapiis) requirements. fapiis requires federal award making officials to review and consider information about an applicant in the designated integrity and performance system (currently fapiis) prior to making an award. an applicant, at its option, may review information in the designated integrity and performance systems accessible through fapiis and comment on any information about itself that a federal agency previously entered and is currently in fapiis. the federal awarding agency will consider any comments by the applicant, in addition to other information in fapiis, in making a judgement about the applicant’s integrity, business ethics, and record of performance under federal awards when completing the review of risk posed by applicants as described in 45 cfr part 75.205 “federal awarding agency review of risk posed by applicants.” this provision will apply to all nih grants and cooperative agreements except fellowships.cooperative agreement terms and conditions of awardnot applicablewhen multiple years are involved, awardees will be required to submit the research performance progress report (rppr) annually and financial statements as required in the nih grants policy statement.a final rppr, invention statement, and the expenditure data portion of the federal financial report are required for closeout of an award, as described in the nih grants policy statement.the federal funding accountability and transparency act of 2006 (transparency act), includes a requirement for awardees of federal grants to report information about first-tier subawards and executive compensation under federal assistance awards issued in fy2011 or later. all awardees of applicable nih grants and cooperative agreements are required to report to the federal subaward reporting system (fsrs) available at www.fsrs.gov on all subawards over $25,000. see the nih grants policy statement for additional information on this reporting requirement.in accordance with the regulatory requirements provided at 45 cfr 75.113 and appendix xii to 45 cfr part 75, recipients that have currently active federal grants, cooperative agreements, and procurement contracts from all federal awarding agencies with a cumulative total value greater than $10,000,000 for any period of time during the period of performance of a federal award, must report and maintain the currency of information reported in the system for award management (sam) about civil, criminal, and administrative proceedings in connection with the award or performance of a federal award that reached final disposition within the most recent five-year period. the recipient must also make semiannual disclosures regarding such proceedings. proceedings information will be made publicly available in the designated integrity and performance system (currently fapiis). this is a statutory requirement under section 872 of public law 110-417, as amended (41 u.s.c. 2313). as required by section 3010 of public law 111-212, all information posted in the designated integrity and performance system on or after april 15, 2011, except past performance reviews required for federal procurement contracts, will be publicly available. full reporting requirements and procedures are found in appendix xii to 45 cfr part 75 – award term and conditions for recipient integrity and performance matters.we encourage inquiries concerning this funding opportunity and welcome the opportunity to answer questions from potential applicants.era service desk (questions regarding assist, era commons, application errors and warnings, documenting system problems that threaten submission by the due date, and post-submission issues)finding help online: http://grants.nih.gov/support/ (preferred method of contact) telephone: 301-402-7469 or 866-504-9552 (toll free)general grants information (questions regarding application instructions, application processes, and nih grant resources) email: grantsinfo@nih.gov (preferred method of contact) telephone: 301-637-3015grants.gov customer support (questions regarding grants.gov registration and workspace) contact center telephone: 800-518-4726 email: support@grants.govbarbara thomas, phd national human genome research institute (nhgri) telephone: 301-402-8837 email: barbara.thomas@nih.govbarbara thomas, phd national human genome research institute (nhgri) telephone: 301-402-8837 email: barbara.thomas@nih.govnot applicable.recently issued trans-nih policy notices may affect your application submission. a full list of policy notices published by nih is provided in the nih guide for grants and contracts. all awards are subject to the terms and conditions, cost principles, and other considerations described in the nih grants policy statement.awards are made under the authorization of sections 301 and 405 of the public health service act as amended (42 usc 241 and 284) and under federal regulations 42 cfr part 52 and 45 cfr part 75.weekly toc for this announcement nih funding opportunities and noticesnote: for help accessing pdf, rtf, ms word, excel, powerpoint, audio or video files, see help downloading files.