Limited Competition: National Primate Research Centers (P51) Program
national institutes of health (nih)office of research infrastructure programs (orip)limited competition: national primate research centers (p51) (clinical trials not allowed)p51 primate research center grantsreissue of par 17-144 see notices of special interest associated with this funding opportunityjuly 26, 2019- changes to nih requirements regarding proposed human fetal tissue research. see notice not-od-19-128august 23, 2019- clarifying competing application instructions and notice of publication of frequently asked questions (faqs) regarding proposed human fetal tissue research. see notice not-od-19-137par-20-181noneonly one application per institution is allowed as defined in section iii. 3. additional information on eligibility. 93.351this foa encourages grant applications that support the activities of the national primate research centers (nprcs). nonhuman primates (nhps) are most closely related to humans, both physiologically and genetically. therefore, nhps are critical animal models for basic and translational research aimed at understanding human biology, both in normal and diseased states. proper husbandry and management of nhps require specialized physical and intellectual resources, which are most effectively and economically provided in centralized primate centers, the resources of which are made available to investigators on a national basis. the nprcs provide these resources to investigators/grantees who utilize nhps in biomedical research and thereby complement and help enable the missions of the nih institutes and centers.may 27, 2020august 25, 2020not applicablestandard dates apply.the first standard application due date for this foa is september 25, 2020.all applications are due by 5:00 pm local time of applicant organization. all types of non-aids applications allowed for this funding opportunity announcement are due on these dates.not applicablestandard dates applystandard dates applystandard dates applymay 26, 2023not applicableit is critical that applicants follow the multi-project (m) instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, except where instructed to do otherwise (in this foa or in a notice from the nih guide for grants and contracts). conformance to all requirements (both in the application guide and the foa) is required and strictly enforced. applicants must read and follow all application instructions in the application guide as well as any program-specific instructions noted in section iv. when the program-specific instructions deviate from those in the application guide, follow the program-specific instructions. applications that do not comply with these instructions may be delayed or not accepted for review.there are several options available to submit your application through grants.gov to nih and department of health and human services partners. you must use one of these submission options to access the application forms for this opportunity.part 1. overview information part 2. full text of the announcementsection i. funding opportunity description section ii. award information section iii. eligibility information section iv. application and submission information section v. application review information section vi. award administration information section vii. agency contacts section viii. other informationthe office of research infrastructure programs (orip) of the national institutes of health (nih) funds the national primate research center (nprc) program, the goal of which is to facilitate the effective use of nonhuman primates (nhps) by scientists engaged in biomedical research. the nprc program complements and enables the missions of the other nih institutes and centers by providing the nhps, expertise, and resources required to study specific diseases. orip’s division of comparative medicine (dcm) funds seven nprcs, which are centralized facilities in various parts of the country and are available to investigators on a national basis. individual nprcs can have specific areas of emphasis, but each is expected to provide a variety of services both individually and through inter-nprc collaborations to a wide range of investigators. applicants to this foa are limited to existing nprcs. investigators who want to use the resources available at the nprcs should consult http://dpcpsi.nih.gov/orip/cm/primate_resources_researchers#centers.the overall objective of the nprc program is to provide support for scientists who use nhps in their research. this is accomplished by funding nprcs that provide the animals, facilities, and expertise needed to enable research using nhps. more specifically, support is provided to:an nprc receives funding from the orip through a base grant using the nih p51 activity code funded through this foa (hereafter referred to as the p51 base grant). the p51 base grant provides the nucleus of support for the nprc. by accepting the grant award, the grantee institution agrees to make the facilities and resources available to affiliate and visiting scientists from other institutions, as well as to its own scientists. the p51 base grant is not intended to provide the total funding for the nprc. funding of nprc operations should be augmented by other sources such as program income, peer-reviewed research grants, contracts, or cooperative agreements and other sources, as appropriate.an nprc is a distinct organizational and structural entity affiliated with a major research institution. the grantee institution is the recipient of the p51 base grant funds and assumes legal responsibility and accountability for use and disposition of these funds in accordance with phs policy. the grantee institution is responsible for the scientific programs being conducted at, with or through the nprc. the grantee institution is responsible for the academic environment of the nprc by providing access to joint appointments in appropriate departments and by encouraging cooperative activities and interchange between the nprc and the grantee institution’s other scientific and technical staff.the p51 base grant supports the specialized facilities, scientific and technical personnel, and nhp species needed for the conduct of biomedical and behavioral research. activities and costs supported by the p51 base grant can include, but are not limited to:organizational structure and operating procedures of the nprcthe specific content of the grant application will depend on the organizational structure of the nprc. in general, an nprc is comprised of major functional components, which may include individual units. individual nprcs have latitude regarding functional organization, which may depend, in part, on the requirements of the grantee institution and on the specific activities of the nprc.a unit is defined as a functional group within an nprc that has an internal organizational chart and reporting structure, as well as specific resources and responsibilities that make an essential contribution to the research activities and day-to-day operations of the nprc. these units are described in the renewal application for the nprc and are peer-reviewed.the administration of the nprc is covered by the required governance unit and administrative units, which should provide services across the entire nprc. these are usually under the direct supervision of the center director or his/her designee. the governance unit covers the nprc administrative leadership that oversees the functions of the nprc, including obtaining input from advisory committees. examples of administrative units include the following: director's office, business office, environmental health and safety, information technology, nprc-specific library services, bioengineering services, photography/graphic arts services, education and training programs, and public affairs office. the specific titles of these units may differ among nprcs.each nprc must have a national scientific advisory board (nsab), which provides guidance to the pd(s)/pi(s) and center director on all aspects of the nprc, including scientific direction. the nsab reports to the pd(s)/pi(s) of the nprc. the nsab must consist of at least six experts in nhp research, such as senior scientists or relevant administrators, from outside the nprc and grantee institution. overall, the composition of the nsab must reflect the range of technical subjects that are pursued at the nprc. it is permissible to have limited representation (maximum of two members) on the nsab from other nprcs, which may facilitate nprc consortium activities. individuals serving on the nsab are appointed annually (1-year terms), are typically reappointed for 3-5 consecutive terms and may serve concurrently on the nsab of, at most, one other nprc. the nsab must meet at the nprc as a full group or as specialty subgroups, at least on an annual basis, to review and provide advice regarding the development and conduct of the nprc’s scientific programs, resource programs and general policies. periodic teleconferences or videoconferences involving the entire nsab or a subcommittee may be scheduled between annual meetings to address continuing or unanticipated scientific or administrative issues at the nprc. the nsab must have a chairperson, who is appointed by the nprc director, in consultation with the pd/pi. a record of the conclusions of the nsab must be maintained in the office of the center director and made available for review site visits and dcm program staff visits.each nprc also must have a research advisory committee (rac), which provides advice to the center director regarding prioritization of projects and resources. final decisions regarding prioritization are at the discretion of the center director. the rac must consist of at least four members appointed by the center director. members of the rac must be core scientists, who represent the functional units within the nprc. the rac must meet at least monthly to discuss the research programs of the nprc and to review all new project proposals that will use nprc resources regarding feasibility in the context of nprc capabilities. in addition, the rac must review the scientific merit of all new project proposals that have not undergone nih peer review and that will use nprc resources. records summarizing the recommendations of the rac must be maintained in the office of the center director and made available at review site visits and dcm program staff visits.animal resources are maintained by the nprc through the colony management unit and animal resources units. each nprc is required to have a colony management unit to support efficient and humane management of nhp breeding colonies, which serve several units of the nprc as well as meeting national needs. the colony management unit operates under the direct supervision of the center director or his/her designee (e.g., associate director). nprcs that have limited space for breeding colonies can fund breeding colonies at other sites. in this case, the nprc that funds the off-site breeding colony will have the primary responsibility for decisions regarding its management. the nprc must be able to provide animals upon request from existing pools of research animals while maintaining an appropriate number of animals for breeding purposes. a computer-based system for tracking animals in the research and breeding colonies must be well-established. additional animal resource units vary widely among the various nprcs. many units within animal resources function across several or all units of the nprc. some units sustain animal well-being, clinical care, or animal research procedures and, therefore, serve several specific units of the nprc.various nhp species can be accommodated at an nprc. generally, demand on a national level and availability are necessary for support of a given species through the p51 base grant. the major support for infrastructure, space, and resources should be used for maintenance and husbandry of those species for which there is major national demand. additional factors, such as conditions and practices to allow social interactions that contribute to the psychological well-being of the animals may also influence resource allocation for a given species. the nprc must have programs in place to maintain the genetic diversity of animal colonies and for environmental enrichment.animal colonies must meet the following criteria:non-primate species can be used and housed at an nprc if at least one of the following conditions is met: a) the non-primate species is appropriate for preliminary or pilot studies on development of techniques and procedures in preparation for definitive studies in nhps; b) use of the non-primate species will conserve nhp resources and the endpoint studies will be conducted in nhps; c) the non-primate species is used to develop expertise and technology in newly developing fields of research that can be applied to nhps; d) the non-primate species is used to study inter-species relationships with nhps, and it is reasonable to assume that the studies may have direct applicability to nhp research; e) the non-primate species is used as an adjunct to studies on nhp species.pilot research programan nprc must have a pilot research program and must fund at least one pilot research project per year. the number of pilot research projects supported by the p51 base grant can vary, depending on the availability of funds and is at the discretion of the center director. pilot research must include activities related to the use of nhps for biomedical research or for studies enhancing the welfare or husbandry of nhps. pilot research should be developmental or high risk and should be used to generate preliminary data or results necessary to apply for support from sources of funding such as nih r01 grants. from time to time specific areas of research, for example, genetics or regenerative medicine, may be emphasized by researchers using nhps. the nprcs can specifically solicit pilot projects in particular topical areas. all of the funded pilot project grant applications should be available to reviewers at the time of the site visit.the following guidelines apply to the use of p51 base grant funds to support pilot research projects:requests for use of available nprc resources (including animals, space, core facilities, etc.) must be prioritized from highest to lowest priority as follows, with investigators funded by:1. nih extramural grants (highest priority).2. nih intramural funding.3. other federal agency or state funding.4. nonprofit or not-for-profit funding.5. for-profit funding.if a proposed project is funded by more than one source, the highest priority source should be used for determining priorities. within the above categories, projects must be prioritized on a first-come, first-served basis, with no preference given to scientists within the grantee institution or nprc versus scientists from outside the grantee institution.see section viii. other information for award authorities and regulations.grant: a support mechanism providing money, property, or both to an eligible entity to carry out an approved project or activity.renewal resubmission revisionthe oer glossary and the sf424 (r&r) application guide provide details on these application types. only those application types listed here are allowed for this foa.not allowed: only accepting applications that do not propose clinical trials).need help determining whether you are doing a clinical trial?the number of awards is contingent upon nih appropriations and the submission of a sufficient number of meritorious applications.application budgets are not limited but need to reflect the actual needs of the proposed project. renewal (type 2) or resubmission applications may propose no more than a 5 percent (direct cost) increase from the last non-competing year. budgets exceeding this amount will not be accepted.the scope of the proposed project should determine the project period. the maximum project period is 5 years.nih grants policies as described in the nih grants policy statement will apply to the applications submitted and awards made from this foa.only grantees previously funded under par -14-226 or par-17-144 are eligible to apply.non-domestic (non-u.s.) entities (foreign institutions) are not eligible to apply. non-domestic (non-u.s.) components of u.s. organizations are not eligible to apply. foreign components, as defined in the nih grants policy statement, are allowed.applicant organizationsapplicant organizations must complete and maintain the following registrations as described in the sf 424 (r&r) application guide to be eligible to apply for or receive an award. all registrations must be completed prior to the application being submitted. registration can take 6 weeks or more, so applicants should begin the registration process as soon as possible. the nih policy on late submission of grant applications states that failure to complete registrations in advance of a due date is not a valid reason for a late submission.program directors/principal investigators (pd(s)/pi(s))all pd(s)/pi(s) must have an era commons account. pd(s)/pi(s) should work with their organizational officials to either create a new account or to affiliate their existing account with the applicant organization in era commons.if the pd/pi is also the organizational signing official, they must have two distinct era commons accounts, one for each role. obtaining an era commons account can take up to 2 weeks.any individual(s) with the skills, knowledge, and resources necessary to carry out the proposed research as the program director(s)/principal investigator(s) (pd(s)/pi(s)) is invited to work with his/her organization to develop an application for support. individuals from underrepresented racial and ethnic groups as well as individuals with disabilities are always encouraged to apply for nih support.the pd/pi is designated by the grantee institution and has ultimate responsibility for the conduct of nprc operations. the nih communicates with the pd/pi on broad institutional issues relating to the nprc. the pd/pi should hold a position in the grantee institution that crosses organizational lines, for example, as the vice president for research or dean of a graduate school, medical school or health sciences center. the pd/pi must occupy a senior level position in the grantee institution to assure administrative continuity of the nprc’s programs and to avoid dependence on individual departments within the grantee institution. the pd/pi of an nprc is required to commit a measurable effort to the p51 base grant.this foa does not require cost sharing as defined in the nih grants policy statement.only one application per institution (normally identified by having a unique duns number or nih ipf number) is allowed.the nih will not accept duplicate or highly overlapping applications under review at the same time. this means that the nih will not accept:the application forms package specific to this opportunity must be accessed through assist or an institutional system-to-system solution. a button to apply using assist is available in part 1 of this foa. see your administrative office for instructions if you plan to use an institutional system-to-system solution.it is critical that applicants follow the multi-project (m) instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, except where instructed in this funding opportunity announcement to do otherwise and where instructions in the application guide are directly related to the grants.gov downloadable forms currently used with most nih opportunities. conformance to the requirements in the application guide is required and strictly enforced. applications that are out of compliance with these instructions may be delayed or not accepted for review.component types available in assistresearch strategy/program plan page limitsoverall30governance unit12admin core (use for administrative units)6colony management unit12core (use for animal resources, core services)6alterations and renovations (use for a&r unit)6outreach6nprc consortium12project (use for pilot research, scientific units)12additional page limits described in the sf424 application guide and the table of page limits must be followed.the following section supplements the instructions found in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, and should be used for preparing a multi-component application.revision applications must include an overall component and the components that are affected by the revision. therefore, the component requirements listed below may not apply to the revision application.the application should consist of the following components:overall: requiredgovernance unit: required; maximum of 1administrative unit: required; maximum of 10colony management unit: required; maximum of 1animal resources: required; maximum of 14core services: optional; maximum of 15alterations and renovations (a&r) unit: required; maximum of 1outreach: required; maximum of 1nprc consortium; required; maximum of 1pilot research: required; maximum of 1scientific units: required; maximum of 10when preparing your application, use component type ‘overall’.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed, with the following additional instructions, as noted.complete entire form.note: human embryonic stem cell lines from other components should be repeated in cell line table in overall component.follow standard instructions.other attachments: the following attachments must be included in the overall component in order to aid in the review of the applications. the file name provided for each attachment will be the name used for the bookmark in the application image. all attachments need to be in .pdf format.overall sources of support: please title this attachment "overall sources of support" and include a budget summary showing overall sources of support that are not listed on the budget forms for the nprc. for the first budget year requested, provide a table that lists each of the budget categories from the first year composite budget, (e.g., personnel, consultant costs, equipment, supplies, etc.) and the projected sources of funding for each unit. for the particular budget category, show the:a) support requested from the p51 base grant.b) projected support from program income obtained from the p51 base grant.c) projected support from other sources (not including the p51 base grant or program income derived from the p51 base grant).d) total support for the nprc.at the bottom of the table, provide a total for each of the categories, a – d above.table of employees and employee effort: please title this attachment “employees and effort” and include a table containing the following for each nprc employee who is not designated as key personnel, listed by last name in alphabetical order:name and degree.title and role in the nprc.functional unit association(s).for activities related to the nprc, indicate person months funded, respectively, by:note that if all of an employee’s effort relates to the nprc, the sum of the various effort designations will equal 12 person months. if the employee expends effort on non-nprc activities, the sum of the efforts listed in the table will be less than 12 person months. if the renewal application proposes new employees that have not yet been hired, include these as “tbn” in the table, with the information as above for named employees.list of affiliate and visiting scientists: please title this attachment “affiliate and visiting scientists” and provide an alphabetical list of affiliate scientists and visiting scientists including their full names and academic affiliations.affiliate scientists do not receive funding from the p51 base grant and are not key personnel. they conduct research on nhps and collaborate with nprc staff in the conduct of this research. scientists from within the grantee institution, but who do not have appointments at the nprc, are considered affiliate scientists, as are investigators from outside the grantee institution including nih intramural investigators. affiliate scientists obtain approval from the center director to use the resources of the nprc prior to submission of a grant application. contingent on the awarding of funds, they are assured of a working relationship with nprc staff and have access to the facilities and resources of the nprc for regular or intermittent periods necessary to complete a project. scientists who visit or consult with the nprc to learn a procedure or obtain advice, but who otherwise do not use nprc resources, are not considered affiliate scientists. likewise, investigators who obtain services, resources such as animals, or materials such as tissue samples on a fee for service basis, but who otherwise do not collaborate with nprc personnel, are not considered affiliate scientists.visiting scientists are established investigators in residence at the nprc for a limited period by virtue of an appointment approved by the center director and are not key personnel. a visiting scientist is directly responsible to the center director. the studies of visiting scientists must be enhanced by access to an nprc’s resources, and the nprc is expected to benefit from access to a visiting scientist’s expertise and knowledge. visiting scientists typically provide their own salary support, with facilities and resource support provided by the nprc.do not include the investigators who:enter primary site only.a summary of project/performance sites in the overall section of the assembled application image in era commons compiled from data collected in the other components will be generated upon submission.include only the project director/principal investigator (pd/pi) for the entire application.a summary of senior/key persons followed by their biographical sketches in the overall section of the assembled application image in era commons will be generated upon submission.the only budget information included in the overall component is the estimated project funding section of the sf424 (r&r) cover.a budget summary in the overall section of the assembled application image in era commons compiled from detailed budget data collected in the other components will be generated upon submission.note: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023, the data management and sharing (dms) plan will be attached in the other plan(s) attachment of the overall component in forms-h and subsequent application forms packages. for due dates on or before january 24, 2023, the data sharing plan and genomic data sharing plan gds) will continue to be attached in the resource sharing plan attachment in forms-g application forms packages.all applicants planning research (funded or conducted in whole or in part by nih) that results in the generation of scientific data are required to comply with the instructions for the data management and sharing plan. all applications, regardless of the amount of direct costs requested for any one year, must address a data management and sharing plan. the data management and sharing (dms) plan must be provided in the overall component.introduction to application: for resubmission and revision applications, an introduction to application is required in the overall component.specific aims: provide the specific aims for the overall center.research strategy: this section should provide a general introduction to the nprc and should only include information that is not specific to individual units of the nprc. this section should not duplicate the detailed information in the sections describing specific functional components.the organization of the overview section is at the discretion of the applicant, but at a minimum should include the following:vertebrate animals: prepare an overall vertebrate animal section (vas) for general care, housing, procedures, and interventions to minimize pain and distress. research specific procedures should be addressed in the relevant component.letters of support: include letters of support that relate to the nprc as a whole in this section. if more than one institution provides financial support to any operations of the nprc, submit a letter of agreement signed by the responsible officer of each institution.resource sharing plan: individuals are required to comply with the instructions for the resource sharing plans as provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, with the following modification:all applications, regardless of the amount of direct costs requested for any one year, should address a data sharing plan.appendix:only limited items are allowed in the appendix. follow all instructions for the appendix as described in the sf424 (r&r) application guide; any instructions provided here are in addition to the sf424 (r&r) application guide instructions.phs human subjects and clinical trials information (overall)when involving human subjects research, clinical research, and/or nih-defined clinical trials follow all instructions for the phs human subjects and clinical trials information form in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, with the following additional instructions:if you answered “yes” to the question “are human subjects involved?” on the r&r other project information form, there must be at least one human subjects study record using the study record: phs human subjects and clinical trials information form or a delayed onset study record within the application. the study record(s) must be included in the component(s) where the work is being done, unless the same study spans multiple components. to avoid the creation of duplicate study records, a single study record with sufficient information for all involved components must be included in the overall component when the same study spans multiple components.study record: phs human subjects and clinical trials informationall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followeddelayed onset studynote: delayed onset does not apply to a study that can be described but will not start immediately (i.e., delayed start).all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followedall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.when preparing your application, use component type ‘governance unit.’all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed, with the following additional instructions, as noted.complete only the following fields:enter human embryonic stem cells in each relevant component.human subjects: answer only the ‘are human subjects involved?’ and 'is the project exempt from federal regulations?’ questions.vertebrate animals: answer only the ‘are vertebrate animals used?’ question.project narrative: do not complete. note: assist screens will show an asterisk for this attachment indicating it is required. however, era systems only enforce this requirement in the overall component and applications will not receive an error if omitted in other components.list all performance sites that apply to the specific component.note: the project performance site form allows up to 300 sites, prior to using additional attachment for additional entries.budget forms appropriate for the specific component will be included in the application package.note: the r&r budget form included in many of the component types allows for up to 100 senior/key persons in section a and 100 equipment items in section c prior to using attachments for additional entries. all other sf424 (r&r) instructions apply.introduction to application: for resubmission and revision applications, an introduction to application is allowed for each component.specific aims: provide the specific aims for the governance unit.research strategy: the governance unit is requiredthe governance unit should include a discussion of the following, at a minimum:describe the functions and qualifications of the program director(s)/ principal investigator (s) (pd(s)/pi(s)) beyond information described on the biosketch.the administrative relationship among the pd(s)/pi(s), center director, associate directors, assistant directors, and advisory boards and committees and the responsibilities of the center director and associate or assistant directors. describe communication plans covering interactions among the nprc leadership positions as well as those between the nprc and the host institution.describe the oversight committees, including functions and composition. describe the nsab, which provides guidance to the pd(s)/pi(s) and center director on all aspects of the nprc, including scientific direction. the nsab must consist of at least six experts in nhp research, such as senior scientists or relevant administrators, from outside the nprc and grantee institution. describe the research areas of the nsab members and how these are related to the range of technical subjects pursued at the nprc. it is permissible to have limited representation (maximum of two members) on the nsab from other nprcs, which may facilitate nprc consortium activities. individuals serving on the nsab are appointed annually for 1-year terms, are typically reappointed for 3-5 consecutive terms and may serve concurrently on the nsab of, at most, one other nprc.describe the rac, which provides advice to the center director regarding prioritization of projects and resources. the rac must consist of at least four members including core scientists who are representative of the functional units within the nprc. describe the frequency of rac meetings and the process for review and selection of research programs and new project proposals that will use nprc resources considering feasibility in the context of nprc capabilities. describe the rac's process for reviewing the scientific merit of all new project proposals that have not undergone nih peer review and that will use nprc resources. indicate the procedures for coordination among the pd(s)/pi(s), center director, rac, and individual investigators regarding review and approval of submitted research projects.the exact composition of the nsab and rac, terms of service, and the frequency and type of meetings can vary depending on the needs of the individual nprcs. the center director has the option of appointing additional advisory committees to augment these required standing committees, depending on the unique needs of the nprc, which can vary because of differences in leadership structures, nhp populations, university affiliations, community interactions and other factors that affect governance. for all committees, provide a membership list, including academic titles, for each committee member.vertebrate animals: if answered affirmative for vertebrate animals, refer to the overall vas for general procedures and interventions to minimize pain and distress. for the specific unit, include any research-specific procedures, such as imaging or surgical procedures, as well as interventions to minimize pain and distress. address species justifications related to the specific field of research.letters of support: the applicant may include letters of support related to the specific unit.resource sharing plan: individuals are required to comply with the instructions for the resource sharing plans as provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, with the following modification:all applications, regardless of the amount of direct costs requested for any one year, should address a data sharing plan.appendix:only limited items are allowed in the appendix.follow all instructions for the appendix as described in the sf424 (r&r) application guide; any instructions provided here are in addition to the sf424 (r&r) application guide instructions.when involving human subjects research, clinical research, and/or nih-defined clinical trials follow all instructions for the phs human subjects and clinical trials information form in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, with the following additional instructions:if you answered “yes” to the question “are human subjects involved?” on the r&r other project information form, you must include at least one human subjects study record using the study record: phs human subjects and clinical trials information form or a delayed onset study record.study record: phs human subjects and clinical trials informationall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followeddelayed onset studynote: delayed onset does not apply to a study that can be described but will not start immediately (i.e., delayed start).all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followedwhen preparing your application, use component type ‘admin core.’all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed, with the following additional instructions, as noted.examples of administrative units include the following: director's office, business office, environmental health and safety, information technology, nprc-specific library services, bioengineering services, photography services, education and training programs, and public affairs office. the specific titles of these units may differ among nprcs.complete only the following fields:enter human embryonic stem cells in each relevant component.human subjects: answer only the ‘are human subjects involved?’ and 'is the project exempt from federal regulations?’ questions.vertebrate animals: answer only the ‘are vertebrate animals used?’ question.project narrative: do not complete. note: assist screens will show an asterisk for this attachment indicating it is required. however, era systems only enforce this requirement in the overall component and applications will not receive an error if omitted in other components.other attachments: for each administrative unit include a table showing the sources and amounts of funding for the individual unit for the last funded year of the existing p51 base grant and the first proposed year of the p51 base grant renewal. the table should provide detailed information, which is used to calculate the information in the overall section. sources of funding should be broken down as follows, and as applicable to the unit:list all performance sites that apply to the specific component.note: the project performance site form allows up to 300 sites, prior to using additional attachment for additional entries.budget forms appropriate for the specific component will be included in the application package.note: the r&r budget form included in many of the component types allows for up to 100 senior/key persons in section a and 100 equipment items in section c prior to using attachments for additional entries. all other sf424 (r&r) instructions apply.introduction to application: for resubmission and revision applications, an introduction to application is allowed for each component.specific aims: provide the specific aims for the specific administrative unit.research strategy: the administrative units should provide services across the entire nprc and are usually under the direct supervision of the center director or his/her designee.include the following information for each individual administrative unit:description of the unit and unit organizational chart. address the progress and major accomplishments achieved by the unit during the past grant period. describe the service plan and/or research plan for the proposed grant period.list of unit personnel, who are not key personnel, base institutional affiliation, and role in relation to the nprc.vertebrate animals: if answered affirmative for vertebrate animals, refer to the overall vas for general procedures and interventions to minimize pain and distress. for the specific unit, include any research-specific procedures, such as imaging or surgical procedures, as well as interventions to minimize pain and distress. address species justifications related to the specific field of research.letters of support: the applicant may include letters of support related to the specific unit.resource sharing plan: individuals are required to comply with the instructions for the resource sharing plans as provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, with the following modification:all applications, regardless of the amount of direct costs requested for any one year, should address a data sharing plan.appendix: only limited items are allowed in the appendix. follow all instructions for the appendix as described in the sf424 (r&r) application guide; any instructions provided here are in addition to the sf424 (r&r) application guide instructions.when involving human subjects research, clinical research, and/or nih-defined clinical trials follow all instructions for the phs human subjects and clinical trials information form in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, with the following additional instructions:if you answered “yes” to the question “are human subjects involved?” on the r&r other project information form, you must include at least one human subjects study record using the study record: phs human subjects and clinical trials information form or a delayed onset study record.study record: phs human subjects and clinical trials information all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.delayed onset studynote: delayed onset does not apply to a study that can be described but will not start immediately (i.e., delayed start). all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.when preparing your application, use component type ‘a&r unit.’all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed, with the following additional instructions, as noted.complete only the following fields:enter human embryonic stem cells in each relevant component.human subjects: answer only the ‘are human subjects involved?’ and 'is the project exempt from federal regulations?’ questions.vertebrate animals: answer only the ‘are vertebrate animals used?’ question.project narrative: do not complete. note: assist screens will show an asterisk for this attachment indicating it is required. however, era systems only enforce this requirement in the overall component and applications will not receive an error if omitted in other components.other attachments: include a table showing the sources and amounts of funding for the a&r unit for the last funded year of the existing p51 base grant and the first proposed year of the p51 base grant renewal. the table should provide detailed information, which is used to calculate the information in the overall section. sources of funding should be broken down as follows, and as applicable to the unit:title this pdf attachment as “funding table for the a&r unit.”master plan: include an overview of the nprc’s physical space with a high-level plan for use, maintenance and any improvements by the institution, including the time-frame covered. title this attachment “master plan”.alteration and renovations (a&r) quotes: please title this attachment "a&r quotes" and provide copies of price quotations for equipment, as applicable.list all performance sites that apply to the specific component.note: the project performance site form allows up to 300 sites, prior to using additional attachment for additional entries.budget forms appropriate for the specific component will be included in the application package. major a&r funds can be used to upgrade the physical plant (repairs and renovation of facilities) and to replace obsolete shared resources and equipment. across the entire nprc, a maximum of $600,000 in total costs for a&r funds may be requested for each year of the p51 base grant application. a single a&r project or equipment purchase cannot exceed $500,000 in total costs. construction is not allowed.note: the r&r budget form included in many of the component types allows for up to 100 senior/key persons in section a and 100 equipment items in section c prior to using attachments for additional entries. all other sf424 (r&r) instructions apply.introduction to application: for resubmission and revision applications, an introduction to application is allowed for each component.specific aims: provide the specific aims for the a&r unit.research strategy: the a&r unit should provide services across the entire nprc and is usually under the direct supervision of the center director or his/her designee.description of the unit and unit organizational chart.address the progress and major accomplishments achieved by the unit during the past grant period. describe the service plan for the proposed grant period. describe how the a&r plans are integrated into the master plan of the nprc’s physical space.list of unit personnel, who are not key personnel, base institutional affiliation, and role in relation to the nprc.vertebrate animals: if answered affirmative for vertebrate animals, refer to the overall vas for general procedures and interventions to minimize pain and distress. for the specific unit, include any research-specific procedures, such as imaging or surgical procedures, as well as interventions to minimize pain and distress. address species justifications related to the specific field of research.letters of support: the applicant may include letters of support related to the specific unit.resource sharing plan: individuals are required to comply with the instructions for the resource sharing plans as provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, with the following modification:all applications, regardless of the amount of direct costs requested for any one year, should address a data sharing plan.appendix:only limited items are allowed in the appendix. follow all instructions for the appendix as described in the sf424 (r&r) application guide; any instructions provided here are in addition to the sf424 (r&r) application guide instructions.when involving human subjects research, clinical research, and/or nih-defined clinical trials follow all instructions for the phs human subjects and clinical trials information form in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, with the following additional instructions:if you answered “yes” to the question “are human subjects involved?” on the r&r other project information form, you must include at least one human subjects study record using the study record: phs human subjects and clinical trials information form or a delayed onset study record.study record: phs human subjects and clinical trials information all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.delayed onset study note: delayed onset does not apply to a study that can be described but will not start immediately (i.e., delayed start). all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followedwhen preparing your application, use component type ‘colony management unit.’all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed, with the following additional instructions, as noted.complete only the following fields:enter human embryonic stem cells in each relevant component.human subjects: answer only the ‘are human subjects involved?’ and 'is the project exempt from federal regulations?’ questions.vertebrate animals: answer only the ‘are vertebrate animals used?’ question.project narrative: do not complete. note: assist screens will show an asterisk for this attachment indicating it is required. however, era systems only enforce this requirement in the overall component and applications will not receive an error if omitted in other components.other attachments: for the colony management unit include a table showing the sources and amounts of funding for the individual unit for the last funded year of the existing p51 base grant and the first proposed year of the p51 base grant renewal. the table should provide detailed information, which is used to calculate the information in the overall section. sources of funding should be broken down as follows, and as applicable to the unit:list all performance sites that apply to the specific component.note: the project performance site form allows up to 300 sites, prior to using additional attachment for additional entries.the following pertains to core scientists in all units of the nprc, including colony management and animal resources: core scientists may, with appropriate justification and depending on availability of funds, receive up to 100 percent salary support from the p51 base grant. such full-time support must be justified on the basis of short-term, interim funding or continuity of specialized functions and responsibilities critical to the nprc’s overall operation. the grantee institution must specifically justify support of any core scientist at greater than 4.8 person months each year in the renewal application. core scientists who receive their full salary from the base grant may devote up to 1.2 person months of their effort to scholarly activities in an academic department, usually in the grantee institution. salary support, in addition to that provided by the p51 base grant, may be derived through a joint appointment within the grantee institution. the specific level of outside funding versus p51 base grant funding for a core scientist will depend on the responsibilities of the core scientist.regardless of the source of funding, core scientists must devote at least 1.2 person months of their total professional time to service that is directly related to supporting the scientific programs and activities of the nprc. in addition, a core scientist must devote at least 6 person months of his/her research effort to nhp-related research.note: the r&r budget form included in many of the component types allows for up to 100 senior/key persons in section a and 100 equipment items in section c prior to using attachments for additional entries. all other sf424 (r&r) instructions apply.introduction to application: for resubmission and revision applications, an introduction to application is allowed for the colony management unit.specific aims: provide the specific aims for the colony management unit.research strategy: each nprc is required to have a colony management unit to support efficient and humane management of nhp breeding colonies, which serve several units of the nprc as well as meeting national needs as described in section i.for the colony management unit include the following:vertebrate animals: if answered affirmative for vertebrate animals, refer to the overall vas for general procedures and interventions to minimize pain and distress. for the specific unit, include any research-specific procedures, such as imaging or surgical procedures, as well as interventions to minimize pain and distress. address species justifications related to the specific field of research.letters of support: the applicant may include letters of support related to the specific unit.resource sharing plan: individuals are required to comply with the instructions for the resource sharing plans as provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, with the following modification:all applications, regardless of the amount of direct costs requested for any one year, should address a data sharing plan.appendix: only limited items are allowed in the appendix. follow all instructions for the appendix as described in the sf424 (r&r) application guide; any instructions provided here are in addition to the sf424 (r&r) application guide instructions.when involving human subjects research, clinical research, and/or nih-defined clinical trials follow all instructions for the phs human subjects and clinical trials information form in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, with the following additional instructions:if you answered “yes” to the question “are human subjects involved?” on the r&r other project information form, you must include at least one human subjects study record using the study record: phs human subjects and clinical trials information form or a delayed onset study record.study record: phs human subjects and clinical trials informationall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.delayed onset studynote: delayed onset does not apply to a study that can be described but will not start immediately (i.e., delayed start). all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.animal resources when preparing your application, use component type ‘core.’all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed, with the following additional instructions, as noted.complete only the following fields:phs 398 cover page supplement (animal resources)enter human embryonic stem cells in each relevant component.research & related other project information (animal resources)human subjects: answer only the ‘are human subjects involved?’ and 'is the project exempt from federal regulations?’ questions.vertebrate animals: answer only the ‘are vertebrate animals used?’ question.project narrative: do not complete. note: assist screens will show an asterisk for this attachment indicating it is required. however, era systems only enforce this requirement in the overall component and applications will not receive an error if omitted in other components.other attachments: for each animal resources unit include a table showing the sources and amounts of funding for the individual unit for the last funded year of the existing p51 base grant and the first proposed year of the p51 base grant renewal. the table should provide detailed information, which is used to calculate the information in the overall section. sources of funding should be broken down as follows, and as applicable to the unit:title this pdf attachment as funding table for the specific animal resources unit.project /performance site location(s) (animal resources)list all performance sites that apply to the specific component.note: the project performance site form allows up to 300 sites, prior to using additional attachment for additional entries.research & related senior/key person profile (animal resources)budget (animal resources)budget forms appropriate for the specific component will be included in the application package.note: the r&r budget form included in many of the component types allows for up to 100 senior/key persons in section a and 100 equipment items in section c prior to using attachments for additional entries. all other sf424 (r&r) instructions apply.phs 398 research plan (animal resources)introduction to application: for resubmission and revision applications, an introduction to application is allowed for each component.specific aims: provide the specific aims for the specific animal resources unit.research strategy:animal resource units vary widely among the various nprcs and are described in section i. for each specific animal resource unit defined by the nprc, include the following if appropriate to the unit:vertebrate animals: if answered affirmative for vertebrate animals, refer to the overall vas for general procedures and interventions to minimize pain and distress. for the specific unit, include any research-specific procedures, such as imaging or surgical procedures, as well as interventions to minimize pain and distress. address species justifications related to the specific field of research.letters of support: the applicant may include letters of support related to the specific unit.resource sharing plan: individuals are required to comply with the instructions for the resource sharing plans as provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, with the following modification:all applications, regardless of the amount of direct costs requested for any one year, should address a data sharing plan.appendix: only limited items are allowed in the appendix. follow all instructions for the appendix as described in the sf424 (r&r) application guide; any instructions provided here are in addition to the sf424 (r&r) application guide instructions.phs human subjects and clinical trials information (animal resources)when involving human subjects research, clinical research, and/or nih-defined clinical trials follow all instructions for the phs human subjects and clinical trials information form in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, with the following additional instructions:if you answered “yes” to the question “are human subjects involved?” on the r&r other project information form, you must include at least one human subjects study record using the study record: phs human subjects and clinical trials information form or a delayed onset study record.study record: phs human subjects and clinical trials informationall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.delayed onset studynote: delayed onset does not apply to a study that can be described but will not start immediately (i.e., delayed start).all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.core serviceswhen preparing your application, use component type ‘core.’all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed, with the following additional instructions, as noted.sf424 (r&r) cover (core services)complete only the following fields:phs 398 cover page supplement (core services)enter human embryonic stem cells in each relevant component.research & related other project information (core services)human subjects: answer only the ‘are human subjects involved?’ and 'is the project exempt from federal regulations?’ questions.vertebrate animals: answer only the ‘are vertebrate animals used?’ question.project narrative: do not complete. note: assist screens will show an asterisk for this attachment indicating it is required. however, era systems only enforce this requirement in the overall component and applications will not receive an error if omitted in other components.other attachments: for each core service include a table showing the sources and amounts of funding for the individual unit for the last funded year of the existing p51 base grant and the first proposed year of the p51 base grant renewal. the table should provide detailed information, which is used to calculate the information in the overall section. sources of funding should be broken down as follows, and as applicable to the unit:project /performance site location(s) (core services)list all performance sites that apply to the specific component.note: the project performance site form allows up to 300 sites, prior to using additional attachment for additional entries.research & related senior/key person profile (core services)budget (core services)budget forms appropriate for the specific component will be included in the application package.note: the r&r budget form included in many of the component types allows for up to 100 senior/key persons in section a and 100 equipment items in section c prior to using attachments for additional entries. all other sf424 (r&r) instructions apply.phs 398 research plan (core services)introduction to application: for resubmission and revision applications, an introduction to application is allowed for each component.specific aims: provide the specific aims for the specific core services unit.research strategy:for each core service defined by the nprc, include the following as appropriate to the unit:provide the following information for the tissue and reagent distribution program, if applicable:vertebrate animals: if answered affirmative for vertebrate animals, refer to the overall vas for general procedures and interventions to minimize pain and distress. for the specific unit, include any research-specific procedures, such as imaging or surgical procedures, as well as interventions to minimize pain and distress. address species justifications related to the specific field of research.letters of support: the applicant may include letters of support related to the specific unit.resource sharing plan: individuals are required to comply with the instructions for the resource sharing plans as provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, with the following modification:all applications, regardless of the amount of direct costs requested for any one year, should address a data sharing plan.appendix: only limited items are allowed in the appendix. follow all instructions for the appendix as described in the sf424 (r&r) application guide; any instructions provided here are in addition to the sf424 (r&r) application guide instructions.phs human subjects and clinical trials information (core services)when involving human subjects research, clinical research, and/or nih-defined clinical trials follow all instructions for the phs human subjects and clinical trials information form in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, with the following additional instructions:if you answered “yes” to the question “are human subjects involved?” on the r&r other project information form, you must include at least one human subjects study record using the study record: phs human subjects and clinical trials information form or a delayed onset study record.study record: phs human subjects and clinical trials informationall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.delayed onset studynote: delayed onset does not apply to a study that can be described but will not start immediately (i.e., delayed start).all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.scientific unitwhen preparing your application, use component type ‘project.’all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed, with the following additional instructions, as noted.sf424 (r&r) cover (scientific unit)complete only the following fields:enter human embryonic stem cells in each relevant component.human subjects: answer only the ‘are human subjects involved?’ and 'is the project exempt from federal regulations?’ questions.vertebrate animals: answer only the ‘are vertebrate animals used?’ question.project narrative: do not complete. note: assist screens will show an asterisk for this attachment indicating it is required. however, era systems only enforce this requirement in the overall component and applications will not receive an error if omitted in other components.other attachments: the following attachments must be included in each scientific unit component in order to aid in the review of the applications. the file name provided for each attachment will be the name used for the bookmark in the application image. all attachments need to be in .pdf format.externally funded research projects: please title this attachment “externally funded research projects” and provide a list of projects performed within the scientific unit. for each project, list the project title, type of grant award, such as an nih r01, the pd/pi of the project, the grantee institution, and a one-sentence description of the purpose of the investigations carried out using nprc resources. this list should include all projects performed by core scientists, affiliate scientists, and visiting scientists. these projects have been peer-reviewed and deemed to be scientifically meritorious; individual projects are not reviewed again in the nprc review. the projects are included to provide an overview of the types of investigations carried out using the resources of the scientific unit.a table showing the sources and amounts of funding for the unit for the last funded year of the existing p51 base grant and the first proposed year of the p51 base grant renewal. the table should provide detailed information, which is used to calculate the information in the overall section. sources of funding should be broken down as follows, and as applicable to the unit:title this pdf attachment as funding table for the specific scientific unit.list all performance sites that apply to the specific component.note: the project performance site form allows up to 300 sites, prior to using additional attachment for additional entries.budget forms appropriate for the specific component will be included in the application package.note: the r&r budget form included in many of the component types allows for up to 100 senior/key persons in section a and 100 equipment items in section c prior to using attachments for additional entries. all other sf424 (r&r) instructions apply.introduction to application: for resubmission and revision applications, an introduction to application is allowed for each component.specific aims: provide the specific aims for the scientific unit.research strategy: research is carried out in units, often referred to as divisions, departments or program areas, organized according to specific areas of scientific research. investigations carried out by core scientists relating to their specific research grants (for example, nih r01 grants) can be performed in the same laboratories as activities related to nprc activities, such as collaborations with affiliate or visiting scientists. however, the p51 base grant is not intended to fund r01 type research performed by core scientists. research projects in scientific units supported by the p51 base grant can fall under the following categories:a scientific unit can also contain entities that provide core services, either to multiple units within the nprc or to the individual scientific unit.include the following for the scientific unit:vertebrate animals: if answered affirmative for vertebrate animals, refer to the overall vas for general procedures and interventions to minimize pain and distress. for the specific unit, include any research-specific procedures, such as imaging or surgical procedures, as well as interventions to minimize pain and distress. address species justifications related to the specific field of research.letters of support: the applicant may include letters of support related to the specific unit.resource sharing plan: individuals are required to comply with the instructions for the resource sharing plans as provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, with the following modification:all applications, regardless of the amount of direct costs requested for any one year, should address a data sharing plan.appendix: only limited items are allowed in the appendix. follow all instructions for the appendix as described in the sf424 (r&r) application guide; any instructions provided here are in addition to the sf424 (r&r) application guide instructions.when involving human subjects research, clinical research, and/or nih-defined clinical trials follow all instructions for the phs human subjects and clinical trials information form in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, with the following additional instructions:if you answered “yes” to the question “are human subjects involved?” on the r&r other project information form, you must include at least one human subjects study record using the study record: phs human subjects and clinical trials information form or a delayed onset study record.study record: phs human subjects and clinical trials informationall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.delayed onset studynote: delayed onset does not apply to a study that can be described but will not start immediately (i.e., delayed start).all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.when preparing your application, use component type ‘project.’all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed, with the following additional instructions, as noted.complete only the following fields:enter human embryonic stem cells in each relevant component.human subjects: answer only the ‘are human subjects involved?’ and 'is the project exempt from federal regulations?’ questions.vertebrate animals: answer only the ‘are vertebrate animals used?’ question.project narrative: do not complete. note: assist screens will show an asterisk for this attachment indicating it is required. however, era systems only enforce this requirement in the overall component and applications will not receive an error if omitted in other components.other attachments: the following attachments must be included in the pilot research component in order to aid in the review of the application. the file name provided for each attachment will be the name used for the bookmark in the application image. all attachments should be in .pdf format.previously funded pilot projects: please title this attachment "previously funded pilot projects." for the previous funding period, provide, for each funded pilot project, a narrative not more than one page in length that includes the following: project title; name, title, and institutional affiliation of the principal investigator; year(s) funded; abstract, including specific aims; full bibliographic material on each paper published, in press or submitted, resulting from the pilot project, note do not include abstracts; and grant applications and funded grants resulting from the pilot project.for the pilot research program include a table showing the sources and amounts of funding for the individual unit for the last funded year of the existing p51 base grant and the first proposed year of the p51 base grant renewal. the table should provide detailed information, which is used to calculate the information in the overall section. sources of funding should be broken down as follows, and as applicable to the unit:title this pdf attachment as “funding table for the pilot research program”.list all performance sites that apply to the specific component.note: the project performance site form allows up to 300 sites, prior to using additional attachment for additional entries.assist will default to “core lead”. if you would like to use a different category, then replace “project lead” below with a different category (e.g., core lead).budget forms appropriate for the specific component will be included in the application package.the following pertains specifically to budgets for pilot research:note: the r&r budget form included in many of the component types allows for up to 100 senior/key persons in section a and 100 equipment items in section c prior to using attachments for additional entries. all other sf424 (r&r) instructions apply.introduction to application: for resubmission and revision applications, an introduction to application is allowed for each component.specific aims: provide the specific aims for the pilot research program.research strategy:provide the following information on the pilot research program:vertebrate animals: if answered affirmative for vertebrate animals, refer to the overall vas for general procedures and interventions to minimize pain and distress. for the specific unit, include any research-specific procedures, such as imaging or surgical procedures, as well as interventions to minimize pain and distress. address species justifications related to the specific field of research.letters of support: the applicant may include letters of support related to the specific unit.resource sharing plan: individuals are required to comply with the instructions for the resource sharing plans as provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, with the following modification:all applications, regardless of the amount of direct costs requested for any one year, should address a data sharing plan.appendix: only limited items are allowed in the appendix. follow all instructions for the appendix as described in the sf424 (r&r) application guide; any instructions provided here are in addition to the sf424 (r&r) application guide instructions.when involving human subjects research, clinical research, and/or nih-defined clinical trials follow all instructions for the phs human subjects and clinical trials information form in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, with the following additional instructions:if you answered “yes” to the question “are human subjects involved?” on the r&r other project information form, you must include at least one human subjects study record using the study record: phs human subjects and clinical trials information form or a delayed onset study record.study record: phs human subjects and clinical trials informationall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.delayed onset studynote: delayed onset does not apply to a study that can be described but will not start immediately (i.e., delayed start).all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.outreachwhen preparing your application, use component type ‘outreach’.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed, with the following additional instructions, as noted.sf424 (r&r) cover (outreach)complete only the following fields:enter human embryonic stem cells in each relevant component.human subjects: answer only the ‘are human subjects involved?’ and 'is the project exempt from federal regulations?’ questions.vertebrate animals: answer only the ‘are vertebrate animals used?’ question.project narrative: do not complete. note: assist screens will show an asterisk for this attachment indicating it is required. however, era systems only enforce this requirement in the overall component and applications will not receive an error if omitted in other components.other attachment: for the outreach unit include a table showing the sources and amounts of funding for the individual unit for the last funded year of the existing p51 base grant and the first proposed year of the p51 base grant renewal. the table should provide detailed information, which is used to calculate the information in the overall section. sources of funding should be broken down as follows, and as applicable to the unit:title this pdf attachment as funding table for the outreach unit.list all performance sites that apply to the specific component.note: the project performance site form allows up to 300 sites, prior to using additional attachment for additional entries.budget forms appropriate for the specific component will be included in the application package.note: the r&r budget form included in many of the component types allows for up to 100 senior/key persons in section a and 100 equipment items in section c prior to using attachments for additional entries. all other sf424 (r&r) instructions apply.introduction to application: for resubmission and revision applications, an introduction to application is allowed for each component.specific aims: provide the specific aims for the outreach component.research strategy: nprcs must publicize their capabilities on a national level, for example through a website, providing information at national meetings, etc. this information should be provided to all interested investigators, not just core and affiliate scientists. each nprc is also strongly encouraged, but not required, to have a program to educate the public about the importance of the research at the nprc and the link between animal research and improvements in human health. as part of this program, the nprc is encouraged to have a group dedicated to local community engagement.vertebrate animals: if answered affirmative for vertebrate animals, refer to the overall vas for general procedures and interventions to minimize pain and distress. for the specific unit, include any research-specific procedures, such as imaging or surgical procedures, as well as interventions to minimize pain and distress. address species justifications related to the specific field of research.letters of support: the applicant may include letters of support related to outreach component.resource sharing plan: individuals are required to comply with the instructions for the resource sharing plans as provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, with the following modification:all applications, regardless of the amount of direct costs requested for any one year, should address a data sharing plan.appendix: only limited items are allowed in the appendix. follow all instructions for the appendix as described in the sf424 (r&r) application guide; any instructions provided here are in addition to the sf424 (r&r) application guide instructions.when involving human subjects research, clinical research, and/or nih-defined clinical trials follow all instructions for the phs human subjects and clinical trials information form in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, with the following additional instructions:if you answered “yes” to the question “are human subjects involved?” on the r&r other project information form, you must include at least one human subjects study record using the study record: phs human subjects and clinical trials information form or a delayed onset study record.study record: phs human subjects and clinical trials informationall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.delayed onset studynote: delayed onset does not apply to a study that can be described but will not start immediately (i.e., delayed start).all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.nprc consortiumwhen preparing your application, use component type ‘nprc consortium.’all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed, with the following additional instructions, as noted.human subjects: answer only the ‘are human subjects involved?’ and 'is the project exempt from federal regulations?’ questions.vertebrate animals: answer only the ‘are vertebrate animals used?’ question.project narrative: do not complete. note: assist screens will show an asterisk for this attachment indicating it is required. however, era systems only enforce this requirement in the overall component and applications will not receive an error if omitted in other components.other attachment: the following attachments must be included in the nprc consortium component in order to aid in the review of the application. the file name provided for each attachment will be the name used for the bookmark in the application image. all attachments should be in .pdf format.provide a table that lists the various nprc consortium working groups and the personnel from the nprc that is the subject of this specific grant application and their titles, who have participated in each working group. title this pdf attachment as “nprc consortium working groups and members”.for the nprc consortium unit include a table showing the sources and amounts of funding for the individual unit for the last funded year of the existing p51 base grant and the first proposed year of the p51 base grant renewal. the table should provide detailed information, which is used to calculate the information in the overall section. sources of funding should be broken down as follows, and as applicable to the unit:title this pdf attachment as funding table for the nprc consortium unit.list all performance sites that apply to the specific component.note: the project performance site form allows up to 300 sites, prior to using additional attachment for additional entries.if more than 100 senior/key persons are included in a component, the additional senior key person attachments should be used.budget forms appropriate for the specific component will be included in the application package.note: the r&r budget form included in many of the component types allows for up to 100 senior/key persons in section a and 100 equipment items in section c prior to using attachments for additional entries. all other sf424 (r&r) instructions apply.introduction to application: for resubmission and revision applications, an introduction to application is allowed for each component.specific aims: provide the specific aims for the nprc consortium.research strategy: the nprcs should propose and plan consortium-based activities, including, but not limited to meetings (teleconference, webinars, face-to-face) and sharing of best-practices, protocols, and data that will enhance the resources of the program and promote cost savings by standardizing common activities across all of the nprcs. an example of this type of activity includes, but is not limited to, participation in nprc working groups, the goals of which are to consolidate system-wide activities. working groups are formed by nprc representatives in consultation with orip staff. the center director will appoint at least one representative to each working group. the function and identity of working groups will change over time, as progress is achieved and new challenges are identified. examples of working groups are breeding colony management, genetics and genomics, behavioral management, biomarkers, occupational health and safety, pathology, pathogen detection, rigor and reproducibility, and training. each working group will address clearly defined goals related to their area of expertise and progress on achieving goals.vertebrate animals: if answered affirmative for vertebrate animals, refer to the overall vas for general procedures and interventions to minimize pain and distress. for the specific unit, include any research-specific procedures, such as imaging or surgical procedures, as well as interventions to minimize pain and distress. address species justifications related to the specific field of research.letters of support: the applicant may include letters of support related to the nprc consortium.resource sharing plan: individuals are required to comply with the instructions for the resource sharing plans as provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, with the following modification:all applications, regardless of the amount of direct costs requested for any one year, should address a data sharing plan.appendix:only limited items are allowed in the appendix. follow all instructions for the appendix as described in the sf424 (r&r) application guide; any instructions provided here are in addition to the sf424 (r&r) application guide instructions.when involving human subjects research, clinical research, and/or nih-defined clinical trials follow all instructions for the phs human subjects and clinical trials information form in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, with the following additional instructions:if you answered “yes” to the question “are human subjects involved?” on the r&r other project information form, you must include at least one human subjects study record using the study record: phs human subjects and clinical trials information form or a delayed onset study record.study record: phs human subjects and clinical trials informationall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.delayed onset studynote: delayed onset does not apply to a study that can be described but will not start immediately (i.e., delayed start).all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.see part 1. section iii.1 for information regarding the requirement for obtaining a unique entity identifier and for completing and maintaining active registrations in system for award management (sam), nato commercial and government entity (ncage) code (if applicable), era commons, and grants.gov.part i. overview information contains information about key dates and times. applicants are encouraged to submit applications before the due date to ensure they have time to make any application corrections that might be necessary for successful submission. when a submission date falls on a weekend or federal holiday, the application deadline is automatically extended to the next business day.organizations must submit applications to grants.gov (the online portal to find and apply for grants across all federal agencies) using assist or other electronic submission systems. applicants must then complete the submission process by tracking the status of the application in the era commons, nih’s electronic system for grants administration. nih and grants.gov systems check the application against many of the application instructions upon submission. errors must be corrected and a changed/corrected application must be submitted to grants.gov on or before the application due date and time. if a changed/corrected application is submitted after the deadline, the application will be considered late. applications that miss the due date and time are subjected to the nih policy on late application submission.applicants are responsible for viewing their application before the due date in the era commons to ensure accurate and successful submission.information on the submission process and a definition of on-time submission are provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.this initiative is not subject to intergovernmental review.all nih awards are subject to the terms and conditions, cost principles, and other considerations described in the nih grants policy statement.pre-award costs are allowable only as described in the nih grants policy statement.applications must be submitted electronically following the instructions described in the sf424 (r&r) application guide. paper applications will not be accepted.for information on how your application will be automatically assembled for review and funding consideration after submission go to: http://grants.nih.gov/grants/electronicreceipt/files/electronic_multi-project_application_image_assembly.pdf.applicants must complete all required registrations before the application due date. section iii. eligibility information contains information about registration.for assistance with your electronic application or for more information on the electronic submission process, visit how to apply – application guide. if you encounter a system issue beyond your control that threatens your ability to complete the submission process on-time, you must follow the dealing with system issues guidance. for assistance with application submission, contact the application submission contacts in section vii.important reminders:all pd(s)/pi(s) and component project leads must include their era commons id in the credential field of the senior/key person profile component of the sf424(r&r) application package. failure to register in the commons and to include a valid pd/pi commons id in the credential field will prevent the successful submission of an electronic application to nih.the applicant organization must ensure that the duns number it provides on the application is the same number used in the organization’s profile in the era commons and for the system for award management (sam). additional information may be found in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.see more tips for avoiding common errors.upon receipt, applications will be evaluated for completeness and compliance with application instructions by the center for scientific review, nih. applications that are incomplete or non-compliant will not be reviewed.applicants requesting $500,000 or more in direct costs in any year (excluding consortium f&a) must contact a scientific/ research contact at least 6 weeks before submitting the application and follow the policy on the acceptance for review of unsolicited applications that request $500,000 or more in direct costs as described in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.applicants are required to follow the instructions for post-submission materials, as described in the policy. any instructions provided here are in addition to the instructions in the policy.note: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023, the data sharing plan and genomic data sharing plan (gds) as part of the resource sharing plan will not be evaluated at time of review.only the review criteria described below will be considered in the review process. applications submitted to the nih in support of the nih mission are evaluated for scientific and technical merit through the nih peer review system. scoring: reviewers will provide an overall impact score for the entire center (overall). criterion scores will only be collected for the overall critique. scores for specific components (governance, colony management unit, core services, scientific units, pilot program, outreach and nprc consortium) will be obtained and all units will receive a written critique considering the scientific and technical merit of the relevant review criteria as indicated. all components will be considered in assigning the overall impact score for the entire nprc. an application does not need to be strong in all categories to be judged likely to have major scientific impact. for example, a center or component that by its nature is not innovative may be essential to advance a field.reviewers will provide an overall impact score to reflect their assessment of the likelihood for the center to exert a sustained, powerful influence on the research field(s) involved, in consideration of the following review criteria and additional review criteria (as applicable for the center proposed).reviewers will consider each of the review criteria below in the determination of scientific merit, and give a separate score for each. an application does not need to be strong in all categories to be judged likely to have major scientific impact. for example, a center that by its nature is not innovative may be essential to advance a field.does the center address an important problem or a critical barrier to progress in the field? is the prior research that serves as the key support for the proposed project rigorous? if the aims of the center are achieved, how will scientific knowledge, technical capability, and/or clinical practice be improved? how will successful completion of the aims change the concepts, methods, technologies, treatments, services, or preventative interventions that drive this field?does the nprc function as a national resource that effectively provides the scientific and technical expertise and capabilities, animals, infrastructure including instrumentation and other units needed to operate the resource and perform biomedical research using nhps? does the nprc develop and sustain national resources for normative data, consultative and collaborative expertise, biologic and genetic material, and specialized facilities, equipment, and expertise that support nhp-related research? does the nprc develop and maintain animal colonies, including the base breeding colony, and provide animals suitable for research using nhps?are the pd(s)/pi(s), collaborators, and other researchers well suited to the center? have they demonstrated an ongoing record of accomplishments that have advanced their field(s)? if the project is collaborative, do the investigators have complementary and integrated expertise; are their leadership approach, governance and organizational structure appropriate for the project?does the pd(s)/pi(s) occupy a senior level position that crosses organizational lines in the grantee institution? is the center director an established scientist with a doctoral degree in one of the health sciences disciplines and a recipient of peer-reviewed biomedical research support? does the center director demonstrate effective oversight and leadership of the nprc? does the center director dedicate a significant portion of his or her effort to providing scientific leadership and administrative oversight of the nprc?are the core staff of the nprc at the forefront of nhp research and husbandry? do the core scientists provide expertise regarding nhps for the conduct of research projects, including investigations by affiliate and visiting scientists?is the nprc guided by appropriately-constituted advisory committees? is the governance of the nprc appropriate with sufficient external input on administrative and scientific directions?does the application challenge and seek to shift current research or clinical practice paradigms by utilizing novel theoretical concepts, approaches or methodologies, instrumentation, or interventions? are the concepts, approaches or methodologies, instrumentation, or interventions novel to one field of research or novel in a broad sense? is a refinement, improvement, or new application of theoretical concepts, approaches or methodologies, instrumentation, or interventions proposed?does the nprc develop improved practices of nhp breeding, husbandry, and genetic management to help meet research needs for pedigreed, disease-free animals of defined quality?does the nprc study the biology of nhp species that are of potential research importance for the purpose of enhancing their scientific utility, health, and well-being?does the nprc conduct pilot (basic and applied) biomedical research projects in areas requiring the use of nhps that are aimed at solving problems related to human health and may lead to independent grant support related to the disease or health problem being studied?does the nprc facilitate the use of animal models of human health and disease?are the overall strategy, methodology, and analyses well-reasoned and appropriate to accomplish the specific aims of the center? have investigators included plans to address weaknesses in the rigor of prior research that serves as the key support for the proposed project? have the investigators presented strategies to ensure a robust and unbiased approach, as appropriate for the work proposed? are potential problems, alternative strategies, and benchmarks for success presented? if the project is in the early stages of development, will the strategy establish feasibility and will particularly risky aspects be managed? have the investigators presented adequate plans to address relevant biological variables, such as sex, for studies in vertebrate animals or human subjects?if the center involves human subjects and/or nih-defined clinical research, are the plans to address: 1) the protection of human subjects from research risks, and 2) inclusion (or exclusion) of individuals on the basis of sex/gender, race, and ethnicity, as well as the inclusion or exclusion of individuals of all ages (including children and older adults), justified in terms of the scientific goals and research strategy proposed?does the nprc maintain an exemplary program of animal care and use consistent with current public health service (phs) policy? are standards of animal care state-of-the-art?does the nprc provide adequate opportunities for local, national, and international research involvement and experience in primatology to graduate and undergraduate students, postdoctoral fellows, visiting scientists, and faculty members, as well as short-term learning assignments for students of the health professions?how effective is the nprc in developing and maintaining animal colonies, including the base breeding colony/colonies, and providing animals suitable for research using nhps? is the nprc able to provide sufficient animals upon request from existing pools of research animals, while maintaining an appropriate number of animals for breeding purposes? are the majority of infrastructure, space, and resources used for maintenance and husbandry of those species for which there is major national demand? are animals provided according to the prioritization scheme mandated by the orip? are animals provided to researchers on a national basis?are requests for the use of available nprc resources appropriately prioritized? is the computer-based system in place for tracking animals in the research and breeding colonies effective?are genetics-based services used for colony management and characterization? does the nprc have programs in place to maintain the genetic diversity of animal colonies?do conditions and practices allow social interactions that contribute to the psychological well-being of the animals? how effective is the nprc's environmental enrichment program?are clinical laboratory services related to colony health surveillance and to the support of research?does the pilot research program contribute to the national goals of the nprc? do the awarded pilot research projects contribute to the success of the recipients’ research program?does the nprc adequately publicize its capabilities on a national level to all interested investigators? has the nprc taken steps to educate the public about the importance of the research at the nprc and the link between animal research and improvements in human health?does the nprc disseminate the findings of studies and technical advances in nhp research to the scientific community via reports published in internationally-recognized, peer-reviewed journals and other appropriate media?does the nprc participate in all relevant nprc consortium activities? has participation by the nprc in specific nprc consortium activities contributed to the success of those activities?will the scientific environment in which the work will be done contribute to the probability of success? are the institutional support, equipment and other physical resources available to the investigators adequate for the project proposed? will the project benefit from unique features of the scientific environment, subject populations, or collaborative arrangements? do the facilities make possible research by core, affiliate, and visiting scientists?are the maintenance, operation, and renovation of the nprc buildings and outdoor facilities appropriate and necessary for the functioning of the nprc?do major resources such as instrumentation and the physical plant (including animal housing, laboratories, and service units) facilitate the objectives of the nprc?as applicable for the center proposed, reviewers will evaluate the following additional items while determining scientific and technical merit, and in providing an overall impact score, but will not give separate scores for these items.for research that involves human subjects but does not involve one of the categories of research that are exempt under 45 cfr part 46, the committee will evaluate the justification for involvement of human subjects and the proposed protections from research risk relating to their participation according to the following five review criteria: 1) risk to subjects, 2) adequacy of protection against risks, 3) potential benefits to the subjects and others, 4) importance of the knowledge to be gained, and 5) data and safety monitoring for clinical trials.for research that involves human subjects and meets the criteria for one or more of the categories of research that are exempt under 45 cfr part 46, the committee will evaluate: 1) the justification for the exemption, 2) human subjects involvement and characteristics, and 3) sources of materials. for additional information on review of the human subjects section, please refer to the guidelines for the review of human subjects.when the proposed center involves human subjects and/or nih-defined clinical research, the committee will evaluate the proposed plans for the inclusion (or exclusion) of individuals on the basis of sex/gender, race, and ethnicity, as well as the inclusion (or exclusion) of individuals of all ages (including children and older adults) to determine if it is justified in terms of the scientific goals and research strategy proposed. for additional information on review of the inclusion section, please refer to the guidelines for the review of inclusion in clinical research.the committee will evaluate the involvement of live vertebrate animals as part of the scientific assessment according to the following criteria: (1) description of proposed procedures involving animals, including species, strains, ages, sex, and total number to be used; (2) justifications for the use of animals versus alternative models and for the appropriateness of the species proposed; (3) interventions to minimize discomfort, distress, pain and injury; and (4) justification for euthanasia method if not consistent with the avma guidelines for the euthanasia of animals. reviewers will assess the use of chimpanzees as they would any other application proposing the use of vertebrate animals. for additional information on review of the vertebrate animals section, please refer to the worksheet for review of the vertebrate animal section.reviewers will assess whether materials or procedures proposed are potentially hazardous to research personnel and/or the environment, and if needed, determine whether adequate protection is proposed.for resubmissions, the committee will evaluate the application as now presented, taking into consideration the responses to comments from the previous scientific review group and changes made to the project.for renewals, the committee will consider the progress made in the last funding period.for revisions, the committee will consider the appropriateness of the proposed expansion of the scope of the project. if the revision application relates to a specific line of investigation presented in the original application that was not recommended for approval by the committee, then the committee will consider whether the responses to comments from the previous scientific review group are adequate and whether substantial changes are clearly evident.as applicable for the centert proposed, reviewers will consider each of the following items, but will not give scores for these items, and should not consider them in providing an overall impact score.not applicablereviewers will assess the information provided in this section of the application, including 1) the select agent(s) to be used in the proposed research, 2) the registration status of all entities where select agent(s) will be used, 3) the procedures that will be used to monitor possession use and transfer of select agent(s), and 4) plans for appropriate biosafety, biocontainment, and security of the select agent(s).reviewers will comment on whether the following resource sharing plans, or the rationale for not sharing the following types of resources, are reasonable: 1) data sharing plan; 2) sharing model organisms; and 3) genomic data sharing plan .for projects involving key biological and/or chemical resources, reviewers will comment on the brief plans proposed for identifying and ensuring the validity of those resources.reviewers will consider whether the budget and the requested period of support are fully justified and reasonable in relation to the proposed research.reviewers will assign a component score as described above.are the progress and accomplishments during the current period of grant support supportive of the mission of the nprc as a national resource? are the service and/or research plan for the proposed grant period appropriate and meritorious? is the unit integrated into the overall nprc activities and does it contribute to the goals of the nprc?are the lines of administrative responsibilities within the nprc and the relationships among the pd(s)/pi(s), the center director, and the associate and assistant directors clearly delineated and appropriate? are the delegation and execution of responsibilities by the center director and associate and assistant directors appropriate? is the relationship between the nprc and the grantee institution suitable to support the center?are the structure of the unit and the method of providing service innovative? does the unit have access to state-of-the-art technology applicable to their function?in terms of organizational framework, is the administration of the various units of the nprc effective? is there appropriate financial management of the p51 base grant? are the derivation and use of program income appropriate?does the nsab provide guidance to the pd(s)/pi(s) and center director on all aspects of the nprc, including scientific direction? does the composition of the nsab reflect the range of scientific and technical subjects pursued at the nprc?does the rac provide advice to the center director regarding prioritization of projects and resources? are the composition, attendance, frequency of meetings, and role in advising the center director of the rac sufficient? are the assigned functions of the rac appropriate? does the rac adequately review the scientific merit of all new project proposals that have not undergone nih peer review and that will use nprc resources? are appropriate records available summarizing recommendations made by the rac? are requests for the use of available nprc resources appropriately prioritized? are animals provided according to the prioritization scheme mandated by the orip? are animals provided to researchers on a national basis?are the institutional support, equipment and other physical resources available to the staff adequate for the proposed activities?for each administrative unit as defined by the center, consider the following:reviewers will assign a component score as described above.are the progress and accomplishments during the current grant period supportive of the mission of the nprc as a national resource? is the service or research plan for the proposed grant period appropriate and meritorious? does the unit serve the needs of core, affiliate, visiting, and external scientists who use nhps in a variety of research areas? are resources available to investigators on a local, regional, and national basis? is the unit integrated into the overall nprc activities and does it contribute to the goals of the nprc?are the colony management/animal services director and associate director(s) appropriately trained and qualified to carry out their responsibilities? do these individuals demonstrate appropriate oversight and leadership? do these individuals dedicate sufficient time to accomplish nprc goals? are clinical staff members of sufficient numbers and adequately trained to support the needs of the nprc? do animal care staff follow sops for animal care, and do they receive training on an ongoing basis?does the nprc develop improved practices of nhp breeding, husbandry, and genetic management to help meet research needs for pedigreed, disease-free animals of defined quality? is the computer-based system for animal records, including health, research, and breeding colony records, state-of-the-art? are innovative procedures used for training animal care staff?are the nhp colonies managed efficiently? are all aspects of colony management well documented? is an effective computer-based colony management system in place? does the colony management system include all relevant parameters? is sufficient attention being given to issues of genetic management? do individual colonies exhibit acceptable levels of reproductive capacity? are requests for the use of available nprc resources appropriately prioritized?are conditions and practices in place to allow social interactions that contribute to the psychological well-being of the animals for a given species? does the nprc have programs in place for environmental enrichment?are animal care personnel well trained and are refresher courses available? are safety and emergency measures adequate? does training address rigor and reproducibility as part of best practices?are clinical laboratory services related to colony health surveillance and to the support of research?do major resources including animal housing, laboratories, and service units facilitate the objectives of the unit? are the maintenance, operation, and renovation of the nprc animal housing facilities appropriate and necessary for the functioning of the unit? as appropriate, is outside scientific expertise available to advise on governance, management, and function of the unit?for each animal resource unit as defined by the center consider the following:reviewers will assign a component score as described above for each core service unit defined by the center.are the progress and accomplishments during the current period of grant support supportive of the mission of the nprc as a national resource? are the plans for the proposed grant period appropriate and meritorious? has the applicant demonstrated the need for the core and availability to core, affiliate and external scientists? what is the value added of the core? is the core integrated into the overall nprc activities and does it contribute to the goals of the nprc?are the core service director and associate director(s) appropriately trained and qualified to carry out their responsibilities? do these individuals demonstrate appropriate oversight and leadership? is the core staffed with sufficient numbers of appropriately-trained personnel to support the services offered?are up-to-date procedures incorporated into core services? as appropriate to user needs, are new services being developed and made available? are the facilities state-of-the-art?are specific services utilized by a significant number of investigators/laboratories? is there any duplication of services across units? do core services include rigor and reproducibility in their approach to laboratory procedures?are the maintenance, operation, and renovation of the nprc buildings and outdoor facilities appropriate and necessary for the functioning of the unit? as appropriate, is outside scientific expertise available to advise on governance, management, and function of the unit?reviewers will assign a component score as described above for each scientific unit defined by the center.are the progress and accomplishments during the current grant period supportive of the mission of the nprc as a national resource? are the service and/or research plan for the proposed grant period appropriate and meritorious? does the unit serve the needs of core, affiliate, visiting, and external scientists who use nhps in a variety of research areas? do nprc scientists interact with external investigators to assist with experimental design, data processing and reporting in efforts to enhance rigor and reproducibility? are resources available to investigators on a local, regional, and national basis? is the unit integrated into the overall nprc activities and does it contribute to the goals of the nprc?are the scientific unit director and associate director(s) suitably trained and qualified to carry out their responsibilities with respect to the nprc? do these individuals demonstrate appropriate oversight and leadership? are the nature, scope, and effectiveness of the plans for coordination and cooperation among scientists appropriate?is the research addressed by the scientific unit at the forefront of nhp research?does the unit facilitate the use of animal models of human disease? does the unit provide opportunities for local, national, and international research involvement and experience in primatology to graduate and undergraduate students, postdoctoral fellows, visiting scientists, and faculty members, as well as short-term learning assignments for students of the health professions?does the scientific unit publish studies that advance nhp research in the specified field? does the scientific unit promote interdisciplinary collaboration?do major resources including animal housing, laboratories, and service units facilitate the objectives of the unit? are the maintenance, operation, and renovation of the nprc buildings and outdoor facilities appropriate and necessary for the functioning of the unit? as appropriate, is outside scientific expertise available to advise on governance, management, and function of the unit?reviewers will assign a component score as described above for the pilot research program.are the progress and accomplishments during the current grant period supportive of the mission of the nprc as a national resource? are the service and/or research plan for the proposed grant period appropriate and meritorious? does the program serve the needs of core, affiliate, visiting, and external scientists who use nhps in a variety of research areas? did a significant percentage of funded pilot research projects involve the active participation early stage investigators or scientists external to the nprc? did funded projects include investigators new to nhp research? is the pilot research program integrated into the overall nprc activities and does it contribute to the goals of the nprc?are nprc core scientists available to support the pilot investigators if they do not have sufficient experience to carry out the work proposed? are the qualifications and expertise of the review panel appropriate to evaluate pilot project applications?does the nprc conduct pilot (basic and applied) biomedical research projects in areas requiring the use of nhps that are aimed at solving problems related to human health and disease? are the projects supported cutting edge? do the projects employ novel concepts, approaches or methods? are the aims original and innovative? do the projects challenge existing paradigms or develop new methodologies or technologies?is the pilot research program publicized on a national level beyond the nprc and grantee institution? are the numbers of applications received and funded adequate and appropriate? if the nprc has solicited applications in a specific subject area, is the subject area important for research using nhps?does pilot research include studies enhancing the welfare or husbandry of nhps? are metrics for success provided in terms of the number of publications, grants submitted, grants funded? how successful have the recipients of pilot research awards been in in terms of resulting publications or in leveraging their results to apply for support from sources of funding?is the composition of the pilot program review committee appropriate? are the scoring system and evaluation format adequate for determining project selection? is the format of the pilot proposal sufficient to allow appropriate evaluation? does the selection process allow prioritization for early stage investigators?do major resources including animal housing, laboratories, and service units facilitate the objectives of the projects? are the maintenance, operation, and renovation of the nprc buildings and outdoor facilities appropriate and necessary for the projects? as appropriate, is scientific expertise available to advise on projects? does the scientific environment in which the work will be done contribute to the probability of success? do the proposed experiments take advantage of unique features of the scientific environment or employ useful collaborative arrangements? is there evidence of institutional support?reviewers will assign a component score as described above for the a&r unit.reviewers will assign a component score as described above for the outreach and community engagement unit.reviewers will assign a component score as described above for the nprc consortium activities.applications will be evaluated for scientific and technical merit by (an) appropriate scientific review group(s) convened by the center for scientific review in accordance with nih peer review policy and procedures, using the stated review criteria. assignment to a scientific review group will be shown in the era commons.as part of the scientific peer review, all applications:applications will be assigned on the basis of established phs referral guidelines to the appropriate nih institute or center. applications will compete for available funds with all other recommended applications . following initial peer review, recommended applications will receive a second level of review by the nih council of councils. the following will be considered in making funding decisions:after the peer review of the application is completed, the pd/pi will be able to access his or her summary statement (written critique) via the era commons. refer to part 1 for dates for peer review, advisory council review, and earliest start date.information regarding the disposition of applications is available in the nih grants policy statement.if the application is under consideration for funding, nih will request "just-in-time" information from the applicant as described in the nih grants policy statement.a formal notification in the form of a notice of award (noa) will be provided to the applicant organization for successful applications. the noa signed by the grants management officer is the authorizing document and will be sent via email to the grantee’s business official.awardees must comply with any funding restrictions described in section iv.5. funding restrictions. selection of an application for award is not an authorization to begin performance. any costs incurred before receipt of the noa are at the recipient's risk. these costs may be reimbursed only to the extent considered allowable pre-award costs.any application awarded in response to this foa will be subject to terms and conditions found on the award conditions and information for nih grants website. this includes any recent legislation and policy applicable to awards that is highlighted on this website.institutional review board or independent ethics committee approval: grantee institutions must ensure that protocols are reviewed by their irb or iec. to help ensure the safety of participants enrolled in nih-funded studies, the awardee must provide nih copies of documents related to all major changes in the status of ongoing protocols.all nih grant and cooperative agreement awards include the nih grants policy statement as part of the noa. for these terms of award, see the nih grants policy statement part ii: terms and conditions of nih grant awards, subpart a: general and part ii: terms and conditions of nih grant awards, subpart b: terms and conditions for specific types of grants, grantees, and activities. more information is provided at award conditions and information for nih grants.recipients of federal financial assistance (ffa) from hhs must administer their programs in compliance with federal civil rights laws that prohibit discrimination on the basis of race, color, national origin, disability, age and, in some circumstances, religion, conscience, and sex. this includes ensuring programs are accessible to persons with limited english proficiency. the hhs office for civil rights provides guidance on complying with civil rights laws enforced by hhs. please see https://www.hhs.gov/civil-rights/for-providers/provider-obligations/index.html and http://www.hhs.gov/ocr/civilrights/understanding/section1557/index.html.hhs recognizes that research projects are often limited in scope for many reasons that are nondiscriminatory, such as the principal investigator’s scientific interest, funding limitations, recruitment requirements, and other considerations. thus, criteria in research protocols that target or exclude certain populations are warranted where nondiscriminatory justifications establish that such criteria are appropriate with respect to the health or safety of the subjects, the scientific study design, or the purpose of the research. for additional guidance regarding how the provisions apply to nih grant programs, please contact the scientific/research contact that is identified in section vii under agency contacts of this foa.please contact the hhs office for civil rights for more information about obligations and prohibitions under federal civil rights laws at https://www.hhs.gov/ocr/about-us/contact-us/index.html or call 1-800-368-1019 or tdd 1-800-537-7697.in accordance with the statutory provisions contained in section 872 of the duncan hunter national defense authorization act of fiscal year 2009 (public law 110-417), nih awards will be subject to the federal awardee performance and integrity information system (fapiis) requirements. fapiis requires federal award making officials to review and consider information about an applicant in the designated integrity and performance system (currently fapiis) prior to making an award. an applicant, at its option, may review information in the designated integrity and performance systems accessible through fapiis and comment on any information about itself that a federal agency previously entered and is currently in fapiis. the federal awarding agency will consider any comments by the applicant, in addition to other information in fapiis, in making a judgement about the applicant’s integrity, business ethics, and record of performance under federal awards when completing the review of risk posed by applicants as described in 45 cfr part 75.205 “federal awarding agency review of risk posed by applicants.” this provision will apply to all nih grants and cooperative agreements except fellowships.cooperative agreement terms and conditions of awardnot applicabledata management and sharingnote: the nih policy for data management and sharing is effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023.consistent with the nih policy for data management and sharing, when data management and sharing is applicable to the award, recipients will be required to adhere to the data management and sharing requirements as outlined in the nih grants policy statement. upon the approval of a data management and sharing plan, it is required for recipients to implement the plan as described.when multiple years are involved, awardees will be required to submit the research performance progress report (rppr) annually and financial statements as required in the nih grants policy statement.a final rppr, invention statement, and the expenditure data portion of the federal financial report are required for closeout of an award, as described in the nih grants policy statement.the federal funding accountability and transparency act of 2006 (transparency act), includes a requirement for awardees of federal grants to report information about first-tier subawards and executive compensation under federal assistance awards issued in fy2011 or later. all awardees of applicable nih grants and cooperative agreements are required to report to the federal subaward reporting system (fsrs) available at www.fsrs.gov on all subawards over $25,000. see the nih grants policy statement for additional information on this reporting requirement.in accordance with the regulatory requirements provided at 45 cfr 75.113 and appendix xii to 45 cfr part 75, recipients that have currently active federal grants, cooperative agreements, and procurement contracts from all federal awarding agencies with a cumulative total value greater than $10,000,000 for any period of time during the period of performance of a federal award, must report and maintain the currency of information reported in the system for award management (sam) about civil, criminal, and administrative proceedings in connection with the award or performance of a federal award that reached final disposition within the most recent five-year period. the recipient must also make semiannual disclosures regarding such proceedings. proceedings information will be made publicly available in the designated integrity and performance system (currently fapiis). this is a statutory requirement under section 872 of public law 110-417, as amended (41 u.s.c. 2313). as required by section 3010 of public law 111-212, all information posted in the designated integrity and performance system on or after april 15, 2011, except past performance reviews required for federal procurement contracts, will be publicly available. full reporting requirements and procedures are found in appendix xii to 45 cfr part 75 – award term and conditions for recipient integrity and performance matters.we encourage inquiries concerning this funding opportunity and welcome the opportunity to answer questions from potential applicants.era service desk (questions regarding assist, era commons, application errors and warnings, documenting system problems that threaten submission by the due date, and post-submission issues)finding help online: http://grants.nih.gov/support/ (preferred method of contact) telephone: 301-402-7469 or 866-504-9552 (toll free)general grants information (questions regarding application instructions, application processes, and nih grant resources) email: grantsinfo@nih.gov (preferred method of contact) telephone: 301-637-3015grants.gov customer support (questions regarding grants.gov registration and workspace) contact center telephone: 800-518-4726 email: support@grants.govsheri ann hild, phd office of research infrastructure programs (orip) telephone: 301-594-8937 email: hildsa@mail.nih.govmaribeth champoux, phd center for scientific review (csr) telephone: 301-594-3163 email: champoum@csr.nih.govgavin wilkom, mim national heart, lung, and blood institute (nhlbi) telephone: 301-827-7078 email: wilkomg@mail.nih.govrecently issued trans-nih policy notices may affect your application submission. a full list of policy notices published by nih is provided in the nih guide for grants and contracts. all awards are subject to the terms and conditions, cost principles, and other considerations described in the nih grants policy statement.awards are made under the authorization of sections 301 and 405 of the public health service act as amended (42 usc 241 and 284) and under federal regulations 42 cfr part 52 and 45 cfr part 75. weekly toc for this announcement nih funding opportunities and noticesnote: for help accessing pdf, rtf, ms word, excel, powerpoint, audio or video files, see help downloading files.