Blueprint Medtech: Small Business Translator (U44 - Clinical Trial Optional)
https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/pa-files/PAR-21-282.html
national institutes of health (nih)national institute on drug abuse (nida) national eye institute (nei) national institute on aging (nia) national institute on alcohol abuse and alcoholism (niaaa) national institute of biomedical imaging and bioengineering (nibib) eunice kennedy shriver national institute of child health and human development (nichd) national institute of dental and craniofacial research (nidcr) national institute of mental health (nimh) national institute of neurological disorders and stroke (ninds) national center for complementary and integrative health (nccih) all applications to this funding opportunity announcement should fall within the mission of the institutes/centers. the following nih offices may co-fund applications assigned to those institutes/centers. office of behavioral and social sciences research (obssr)national eye institute (nei)national institute on aging (nia)national institute on alcohol abuse and alcoholism (niaaa)national institute of biomedical imaging and bioengineering (nibib)eunice kennedy shriver national institute of child health and human development (nichd)national institute of dental and craniofacial research (nidcr)national institute of mental health (nimh)national institute of neurological disorders and stroke (ninds)national center for complementary and integrative health (nccih)all applications to this funding opportunity announcement should fall within the mission of the institutes/centers. the following nih offices may co-fund applications assigned to those institutes/centers.office of behavioral and social sciences research (obssr)u44 small business innovation research (sbir) cooperative agreements - fast-tracknewsee notices of special interest associated with this funding opportunitydecember 20, 2022 - notice of early expiration of rfa-ns-21-022 "translational neural devices (u44 clinical trial optional)". see notice not-ns-23-055not-od-23-012 reminder: forms-h grant application forms and instructions must be used for due dates on or after january 25, 2023 - new grant application instructions now availablenot-od-22-190 - adjustments to nih and ahrq grant application due dates between september 22 and september 30, 2022october 28, 2021 - reminder: forms-g grant application forms & instructions must be used for due dates on or after january 25, 2022 - new grant application instructions now available. see notice not-od-22-018.september 13, 2021 - updates to the non-discrimination legal requirements for nih recipients. see notice not-od-21-181.august 5, 2021 - new nih "forms-g" grant application forms and instructions coming for due dates on or after january 25, 2022. see notice not-od-21-169.august 5, 2021 - update: notification of upcoming change in federal-wide unique entity identifier requirements. see notice not-od-21-170april 20, 2021 - expanding requirement for era commons ids to all senior/key personnel. see notice not-od-21-109not-da-22-050 - notice of intent to publish a funding opportunity announcement for blueprint medtech: small business translator (u44)par-21-315, ug3/ uh3 blueprint medtech translator (ug3/uh3 - clinical trial optional)par-21-314 ,u54 blueprint medtech: incubator hubs (u54 clinical trial not allowed)see section iii. 3. additional information on eligibility.93.853the purpose of this funding opportunity announcement (foa) is to encourage applications from small business concerns (sbcs) to pursue translational activities and limited-size clinical studies to advance the development of therapeutic and diagnostic devices for disorders that affect the nervous or neuromuscular systems.activities supported in this program include implementation of clinical prototype devices, non-clinical safety and efficacy testing, design verification and validation activities leading to submission of an investigational device exemption (ide) to the u.s. food and drug administration (fda) or institutional review board (irb) application for a non-significant risk (nsr) study. the clinical study is expected to provide information about the device function or final design that cannot be practically obtained through additional non-clinical assessments (e.g., bench top or animal studies) due to the novelty of the device or its intended use. this foa is a milestone-driven cooperative agreement program and will involve participation of nih program staff in negotiating the final project plan before award and monitoring of research progress.participants in blueprint medtech receive funding for all activities to be conducted in their own laboratories. in addition, applicants will collaborate with nih-funded consultants to receive assistance with specialty areas including regulatory, reimbursement, intellectual property, commercialization, and strategic partnerships. participants can also augment their project with nih contract research organizations (cros) that specialize in large animal testing, sterilization testing, biocompatibility assessment, manufacturing, and medical monitoring.sbcs developing their own devices or that already have established collaborations with device manufacturers are welcome to apply directly to this foa or any of the companion opportunities. for more information see bp medtech website: https://neuroscienceblueprint.nih.gov/neurotherapeutics/blueprint-medtech30 days prior to the receipt date.october 20, 2021; february 18, 2022; june 20, 2022; october 18, 2022; february 21, 2023; june 20, 2023; october 18, 2023; february 20, 2024, june 20, 2024all applications are due by 5:00 pm local time of applicant organization. all types of non-aids applications allowed for this funding opportunity announcement are due on the listed date(s). applicants are encouraged to apply early to allow adequate time to make any corrections to errors found in the application during the submission process by the due date.all applications are due by 5:00 pm local time of applicant organization. all types of non-aids applications allowed for this funding opportunity announcement are due on the listed date(s).applicants are encouraged to apply early to allow adequate time to make any corrections to errors found in the application during the submission process by the due date.not applicablemarch 2022, july 2022, november 2022, march 2023, july 2023, november 2023, march 2024, july 2024, november 2024may 2022, october 2022, january 2023, may 2023, october 2023, january 2024, may 2024, october 2024, january 2025july 2022; november 2022; march 2023; july 2023; november 2023; march 2024; july 2024; november 2024, march 2025not applicableit is critical that applicants follow the sbir/sttr (b) instructions in the sf424 (r&r) sbir/sttr application guideexcept where instructed to do otherwise (in this foa or in a notice from the nih guide for grants and contracts). conformance to all requirements (both in the application guide and the foa) is required and strictly enforced. applicants must read and follow all application instructions in the application guide as well as any program-specific instructions noted in section iv. when the program-specific instructions deviate from those in the application guide, follow the program-specific instructions. applications that do not comply with these instructions may be delayed or not accepted for review.there are several options available to submit your application through grants.gov to nih and department of health and human services partners. you must use one of these submission options to access the application forms for this opportunity.blueprint medtechthe nih blueprint for neuroscience research is a collaborative framework through which 14 nih institutes, centers and offices jointly support neuroscience-related research, with the aim of accelerating discoveries and reducing the burden of nervous system disorders (for further information, see http://neuroscienceblueprint.nih.gov/).innovators developing groundbreaking medical device technologies face a number of challenges along the translational path from bench to bedside. the blueprint medtech program is an nih incubator that aims to address such challenges and support the innovators by accelerating the development of cutting-edge medical devices to diagnose and treat disorders of the nervous system. the mission of the program is to catalyze the translation of novel neurotechnologies from early-stage development to first-in-human clinical studies. the program will provide: (a) non-dilutive funds to support medical device development activities led by investigators, and (b) additional resources and support services including, but not limited to:the overarching goal of the blueprint medtech program is to accelerate patient access to groundbreaking, safe, and effective medical devices. the program will provide support to sufficiently develop and de-risk technologies to the point where additional investments are warranted from industry partners, investors, and government.a. overviewthe purpose of this funding opportunity announcement (foa) is to support sbcs in pursuing translational activities and clinical studies to advance the development of therapeutic, and diagnostic devices for disorders that affect the nervous or neuromuscular systems. activities supported by this foa include implementation of clinical prototype devices, non-clinical safety and effectiveness testing, design verification and validation activities. additional activities include obtaining an investigational device exemption (ide) for a significant risk (sr) study or institutional review board (irb) approval for a non-significant risk (nsr) study, as well as support for a subsequent clinical feasibility study. the clinical study is expected to provide information about the device function or final design that cannot be practically obtained through additional non-clinical assessments (e.g., bench top or animal studies) due to the novelty of the device or its intended use.all projects will be submitted as sbir fast-track applications.the phase i project will support non-clinical translational device activities to obtain an ide and irb approval for an sr clinical study, or to obtain irb approval for an nsr clinical study. the duration of sbir phase i project will depend on the maturity of the project at entry and can last up to two years. the phase ii project will support a clinical study and can last up to three years. the total project period (including both phases) must not exceed five years. projects for which only a clinical phase is proposed are outside of the scope of this funding opportunity. only phase i projects that have met specific criteria (see below) will be eligible for transition to phase ii after nih administrative review. furthermore, ethical considerations are intrinsic to the responsible conduct of neuroscience research and the translation of neuroscience advances (scientific and technological) into clinical practice. it is expected the immediate next steps following completion of the clinical feasibility study supported under this cooperative agreement will be:this foa will utilize a small business innovation research (sbir) u44 cooperative agreement. as a cooperative agreement, this foa supports milestone-driven projects and involves nih program staff’s participation in negotiating project and milestone plan before award, monitoring the research progress, and making go/no-go decisions. the expectations of the program are in line with those of industry regarding the advancement of devices through the developmental and translational pipelines. as such, an inherent rate of attrition is possible within this program.an objective of the sbir and sttr programs is to foster and encourage participation in innovation and entrepreneurship by socially and economically disadvantaged persons and women-owned small businesses. this par encourages applications from diverse teams of investigators,including team members that are underrepresented in the biomedical, behavioral, or clinical research workforce (see data at http://www.nsf.gov/statistics/showpub.cfm?topid=2&subid=27 and the most recent report on women, minorities, and persons with disabilities in science and engineering). such individuals include those from underrepresented racial and ethnic groups, those with disabilities, and those from disadvantaged backgroundsb. scopeprojects must focus on a disorder that falls within the mission of participating nih blueprint institutes and centers. it is expected that devices within the scope of this program either:c. entry criteriaapplicants to the blueprint medtech program must include novel medical device technologies that will advance upon current neurotechnology (see non-responsive criteria below).applicants should clearly define the current state of the art and highlight how their proposed technology will advance patient care. responsive applications should propose medical devices, expected to be regulated by the fda, with first-of-its-kind technologies, unique and novel intended use, new safety questions, and/or new regulatory questions. responsive applications may also pivot and refine existing technologies toward new intended use and/or use in novel settings (e.g., innovating and translating a neuromodulation device approved for healthcare-setting only to home-use).proposed medical devices and their indications will likely follow de novo or premarket approval (pma) regulatory pathways. medical devices with indications that may fit within an existing 510(k) pathway may also be accepted, as long as the application can demonstrate a clear clinical and technological innovation beyond the state of the art of existing fda-cleared predicates. such devices should be reasonably expected to provide new clinically meaningful diagnostic or therapeutic options or improve the benefit-risk profile of a treatment or diagnostic through substantial safety innovations. it is recommended that applicants reach out to the nih program staff listed at the bottom of this funding opportunity to discuss responsiveness criteria with respect to proposed technologies and indications.for entry to the program, projects should have:applicants are encouraged, but not required, to consult with fda via a pre-submission meeting, study risk designation request, and/or 513(g) submission prior to applying for funding through this grant mechanism. applicants who do not have sufficiently relevant feedback from the fda regarding all planned activities prior to application for funding will be expected to do so as the first milestone of the sbir phase i award. funding may be restricted to a maximum of $100,000 in direct costs until fda feedback that is consistent with the likely success of the regulatory path to market and overall device development plan outlined in the grant application is received. in the event that fda feedback is not consistent with the plans in the grant, program staff will evaluate the concerns and change of scope that would be needed and work with the investigators to determine the most appropriate course of action. any remaining funds associated with the original award will not be released.d. phasessbir phase i scope:examples of studies that may be proposed during sbir phase i include, but are not limited to:sbir phase ii scope:sbir phase ii will support a clinical study that will lead to either:examples of studies that may be proposed during sbir phase ii include, but are not limited to:e. non-responsive activitiesapplications that include the following activities will be considered non-responsive and will be withdrawn and not reviewed:applications that do not include the following will also be considered incomplete:it is recommended that applicants reach out to the nih program staff listed at the bottom of this funding opportunity to discuss responsiveness criteria with respect to proposed technology and indicationsf. milestonesbecause device development is an inherently risky process, it is anticipated that there may be attrition as projects progress. applications must propose one or more milestones for each objective in each year of the project. milestones are goals that quantitatively measure success and efficacy that will be used for go/no-go decision-making for the project (see below for details).for each objective, provide details on methods, assumptions, experimental designs, and data and statistical analysis plans. specify the quantitative criteria for measuring success and the rationale used to develop and justify the criteria identified. quantitative criteria should be robust and consistent with the state-of-the-art in the field. applicants are encouraged to read examples of milestones (e.g., https://www.ninds.nih.gov/funding/apply-funding/application-support-library/devices-milestones).nih program staff will contact the applicant to discuss the project and any changes prior to funding the application, including negotiation of the proposed milestones. the final agreed upon and approved milestones will be specified in the notice of award (noa). progress towards achievement of the final set of milestones will be evaluated yearly by nih program staff. program staff may involve independent consultants or subject matter experts with relevant expertise. if justified, future milestones may be revised based on data and information obtained during the previous project period. if, based on the progress report, a funded project does not meet the milestones, funding for the project will be discontinued. in addition to milestones, the decision to continue funding will also be based on: a robust data package that allows for adequate interpretation of results (regardless of whether they have been captured in the milestones), overall progress, portfolio balance and program priorities, competitive landscape, and availability of funds.nih encourages rigor and reproducibility of observed results. in some cases, conducting additional critical experiments will be important for nih to have confidence in making a funding decision.sbir phase i to phase ii transition:an administrative review will be conducted by program staff, with potential input by independent consultants, to decide whether the phase i project will be transitioned to the phase ii project based on the following:g. quality and compliance requirementsthe use of the design control and quality systems processes (https://www.fda.gov/regulatory-information/search-fda-guidance-documents/design-control-guidance-medical-device-manufacturers) to the degree specified by the fda is required. intermediate steps in the design control process (e.g., design reviews, design verification, design validation, and design transfer activities) where appropriate, and ide submission should be represented in the annual milestones. nih recognizes that the degree to which design controls and quality systems processes are required by the fda may vary substantially depending on the specific device. investigators are encouraged to discuss these issues with the fda and regulatory consultants prior to submitting an application so the extent to which these processes are required is clearly defined and verifiable in the application. applicants should consider the quality system requirements at the ide stage (i.e., design controls) when preparing their device development activities. applicants should consider guidelines and policies for monitoring clinical research in the formation of a plan for data and safety monitoring as required by the appropriate ic.i. pre-application consultationas an u44 cooperative agreement, nih program staff will be involved in the negotiation and execution of the project. when possible applicants are strongly encouraged to consult with nih program staff early in the process of planning an application; this provides the opportunity for the sbc to receive further guidance on program scope, goals, and developing appropriate milestones. applicants should contact program staff at least 12 weeks before a receipt date.j. institute statements of interestrefer to blueprint medtech website for specific ic requirements and interest statements:see section viii. other information for award authorities and regulations.cooperative agreement: a support mechanism used when there will be substantial federal scientific or programmatic involvement. substantial involvement means that, after award, nih scientific or program staff will assist, guide, coordinate, or participate in project activities. see section vi.2 for additional information about the substantial involvement for this foa.the oer glossary and the sf424 (r&r) application guide provide details on these application types. only those application types listed here are allowed for the foa.need help determining whether you are doing a clinical trial?the number of awards is contingent upon nih appropriations and the submission of a sufficient number of meritorious applications.nih has received a waiver from sba, as authorized by statute, to exceed these total award amount hard caps for specific topics. the current list of approved topics can be found at https://sbir.nih.gov/funding#omni-sbir. navigate to the current "sba approved topics list for budget waivers". application budgets are not limited but must reflect the actual needs of the proposed project. applicants should rarely exceed up to $500,000 total cost per year for phase i and up to $1,500,000 total cost per year for the phase ii. in all cases, applicants should propose a budget that is reasonable and appropriate for completion of the research project. application budgets should only cover the work that will be performed by the pd/pi and his/her staff. the nih will pay blueprint medtech contractors and consultants directly for their work; therefore, these expenses should not be included in the budget for this application.durations up to 2 years for phase i and up to 3 years for phase ii may be requested.nih grants policies as described in the nih grants policy statement will apply to the applications submitted and awards made from this foa.only united states small business concerns (sbcs) are eligible to submit applications for this opportunity. a small business concern is one that, at the time of award of phase i and phase ii, meets all of the following criteria:if the concern is more than 50% owned by multiple venture capital operating companies, hedge funds, private equity firms, or any combination of these falls under 3 (ii) or 3 (iii) above, see section iv. application and submission information for additional instructions regarding required application certification.if an employee stock ownership plan owns all or part of the concern, each stock trustee and plan member is considered an owner.if a trust owns all or part of the concern, each trustee and trust beneficiary is considered an owner.definitions:sbcs must also meet the other regulatory requirements found in 13 c.f.r. part 121. business concerns, other than investment companies licensed, or state development companies qualifying under the small business investment act of 1958, 15 u.s.c. 661, et seq., are affiliates of one another when either directly or indirectly, (a) one concern controls or has the power to control the other; or (b) a third-party/parties controls or has the power to control both. business concerns include, but are not limited to, any individual (sole proprietorship) partnership, corporation, joint venture, association, or cooperative. the sf424 (r&r) sbir/sttr application guide should be referenced for detailed eligibility information.small business concerns that are more than 50% owned by multiple venture capital operating companies, hedge funds, private equity firms, or any combination of these are not eligible to apply to the nih sttr program.performance benchmark requirementsphase i to phase ii transition rate benchmark: in accordance with guidance from the sba, the hhs sbir/sttr program is implementing the phase i to phase ii transition rate benchmark required by the sbir/sttr reauthorization act of 2011 and the sbir and sttr extension act of 2022. the benchmark establishes a minimum number of phase ii awards the company must have received relative to a given number of phase i awards received during the 5-fiscal year time period. the transition rate is calculated as the total number of sbir and sttr phase ii awards a company received during the past 5 fiscal years divided by the total number of sbir and sttr phase i awards it received during the past 5 fiscal years excluding the most recently-completed year. the transition rate requirement, agreed upon and established by all 11 sbir agencies, was published for public comment in a federal register notice on october 16, 2012 (77 fr 63410) and amended on may 23, 2013 (78 fr 30951).on june 1 of each year, sba will identify the companies that fail to meet minimum performance requirements.sba calculates individual company phase i to phase ii transition rates using sbir and sttr award information across all federal agencies. sba will notify companies and the relevant officials at the participating agencies. more information on the phase i to phase ii transition rate requirement is available at sbir.gov.phase ii to commercialization benchmark: in accordance with guidance from the sba, the hhs sbir/sttr programs are implementing the phase ii to commercialization rate benchmark for phase i applicants, as required by the sbir/sttr reauthorization act of 2011 and the sbir and sttr extension act of 2022. the commercialization rate benchmark was published in a federal register notice on august 8, 2013 (78 fr 48537), with a reopening of the comment period published on september 26, 2013 (78 fr 59410).non-domestic (non-u.s.) entities (foreign institutions) are not eligible to apply.non-domestic (non-u.s.) components of u.s. organizations are not eligible to apply.foreign components, as defined in the nih grants policy statement, may be allowed.applicant organizationsapplicant organizations must complete and maintain the following registrations as described in the sf 424 (r&r) application guide to be eligible to apply for or receive an award. all registrations must be completed prior to the application being submitted. registration can take 6 weeks or more, so applicants should begin the registration process as soon as possible. the nih policy on late submission of grant applications states that failure to complete registrations in advance of a due date is not a valid reason for a late submission.program directors/principal investigators (pd(s)/pi(s))all pd(s)/pi(s) must have an era commons account. pd(s)/pi(s) should work with their organizational officials to either create a new account or to affiliate their existing account with the applicant organization in era commons. if the pd/pi is also the organizational signing official, they must have two distinct era commons accounts, one for each role. obtaining an era commons account can take up to 2 weeks.any individual(s) with the skills, knowledge, and resources necessary to carry out the proposed research as the program director(s)/principal investigator(s) (pd(s)/pi(s)) is invited to work with his/her organization to develop an application for support. individuals from underrepresented racial and ethnic groups as well as individuals with disabilities are always encouraged to apply for nih support.under the sbir program, for both phase i and phase ii, the primary employment of the pd/pi must be with the small business concern at the time of award and during the conduct of the proposed project. for projects with multiple pds/pis, at least one must meet the primary employment requirement. occasionally, deviations from this requirement may occur.the sf424 (r&r) sbir/sttr application guide should be referenced for specific details on eligibility requirements. for institutions/organizations proposing multiple pds/pis, see multiple principal investigators section of the sf424 (r&r) sbir/sttr application guide.number of applicationsapplicant organizations may submit more than one application, provided that each application is scientifically distinct.nih will not accept similar grant applications with essentially the same research focus from the same applicant organization. this includes derivative or multiple applications that propose to develop a single product, process, or service that, with non-substantive modifications, can be applied to a variety of purposes. applicants may not simultaneously submit identical/essentially identical applications under both this funding opportunity and any other hhs funding opportunity, including the sbir and sttr parent announcements.the nih will not accept duplicate or highly overlapping applications under review at the same time. this means that the nih will not accept:a phase i awardee may submit a phase ii application either before or after expiration of the phase i budget period, unless the awardee elects to submit a phase i and phase ii application concurrently under the fast-track procedure. to maintain eligibility to seek phase ii or iib support, a phase i awardee should submit a phase ii application, and a phase ii awardee should submit a phase iib application, within the first six due dates following the expiration of the phase i or ii budget period, respectively.in phase i, normally, two-thirds or 67% of the research or analytical effort is carried out by the small business concern. the total amount of all consultant and contractual arrangements to third parties for portions of the scientific and technical effort is generally not more than 33% of the total amount requested (direct, f&a/indirect, and fee).in phase ii, normally, one-half or 50% of the research or analytical effort is carried out by the small business concern. the total amount of consultant and contractual arrangements to third parties for portions of the scientific and technical effort is generally not more than 50% of the total phase ii amount requested (direct, f&a/indirect, and fee).deviations from these requirements may be considered on a case by case basis. please contact a program officer for additional information. deviations must be approved in writing by the grants management officer (gmo) after consultation with the agency sbir program manager/coordinator.a small business concern may subcontract a portion of its sbir or sttr award to a federal laboratory within the limits above. a federal laboratory, as defined in 15 u.s.c. § 3703, means any laboratory, any federally funded research and development center, or any center established under 15 u.s.c. §§ 3705 & 3707 that is owned, leased, or otherwise used by a federal agency and funded by the federal government, whether operated by the government or by a contractor.the basis for determining the percentage of work to be performed by each of the cooperative parties in phase i or phase ii will be the total of the requested costs attributable to each party, unless otherwise described and justified in “consortium/contractual arrangements” of the phs 398 research plan component of sf424 (r&r) application forms.additional details are contained in the sf424 (r&r) sbir/sttr application guide.the application forms package specific to this opportunity must be accessed through assist, grants.gov workspace or an institutional system-to-system solution. links to apply using assist or grants.gov workspace are available in part 1 of this foa. see your administrative office for instructions if you plan to use an institutional system-to-system solution.it is critical that applicants follow the sbir/sttr (b) instructions in the sf424 (r&r) sbir/sttr application guide, except where instructed in this funding opportunity announcement to do otherwise. conformance to the requirements in the application guide is required and strictly enforced. applications that are out of compliance with these instructions may be delayed or not accepted for review.although a letter of intent is not required, is not binding, and does not enter into the review of a subsequent application, the information that it contains allows ic staff to estimate the potential review workload and plan the review.by the date listed in part 1. overview information, prospective applicants are asked to submit a letter of intent that includes the following information:the letter of intent should be sent to: blueprint medtechemail: blueprint-medtech@nih.govall page limitations described in the sf424 (r&r) sbir/sttr application guide and the table of page limits must be followed.note: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023, the data management and sharing (dms) plan will be attached in the other plan(s) attachment in forms-h subsequent application forms packages. for due dates on or before january 24, 2023, the data sharing plan and genomic data sharing plan gds) will continue to be attached in the resource sharing plan attachment in forms-g application forms packages.the following section supplements the instructions found in the sf424 (r&r) sbir/sttr application guide and should be used for preparing an application to this foa.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) sbir/sttr application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) sbir/sttr application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) sbir/sttr application guide must be followed with the following additional instructions:other attachments:1. sbir application certification for small business concerns majority-owned by multiple venture capital operating companies, hedge funds, or private equity firmsapplicant small business concerns that are majority-owned by multiple venture capital operating companies, hedge funds, or private equity firms (e.g. majority vcoc-owned) are required to submit a certification at time of their application submission per the sbir policy directive. follow the instructions below.applicants small business concerns who are more than 50% directly owned and controlled by one or more individuals (who are citizens or permanent resident aliens of the united states), other business concerns (each of which is more than 50% directly owned and controlled by individuals who are citizens or permanent resident aliens of the united states), or any combination of these (i.e. not majority vcoc-owned) should not fill out this certification and should not attach it their application package.gantt chart (required – 1-page max):applications that exceed this limit or do not include this attachment will be withdrawn. this attachment should be entitled "gantt.pdf". applicants should include a project timeline in the form of a gantt chart (or similar) that includes all major tasks to be performed during the project. the chart should also include estimated start and completion dates for those tasks.long-term care plan for patients (required – 3 pages max):applications that exceed this limit or do not include this attachment will be withdrawn. this attachment should be entitled "long-term care.pdf". first, applicants should describe the anticipated care needs of participants after a trial has ended, which are related to their trial participation (e.g., continued access to the device, device maintenance, and/or device explant). where relevant, it is recommended that applicants consider various post-trial scenarios, such as device and trial failure or success, regulatory approval options, and decisions by device manufacturers to commercialize or discontinue a product. second, applicants must describe a plan for the care of patients at the end of the study and after the study period, if appropriate. related to the potential care needs. these plans may vary from project to project, depending on, for example, whether patients are likely to have other ways to access this care, the anticipated risks and benefits of receiving this care, the anticipated risks and benefits of not receiving this care, and the feasibility of facilitating this care. plans might include, for example:all plans should include information regarding post-trial obligations (e.g., explantation, hardware and software maintenance and/or updates, or device-related medical expenses).resource checklist (required - 2 pages max):applications that exceed this limit or do not include this attachment will be withdrawn. this attachment should be entitled "resource checklist.pdf". the blueprint medtech program intends to support grantees by providing commercialization, verification, and validation resources. applicants are required to identify which of the following resources provided by blueprint medtech program will be utilized from the list below:applicants are furthermore encouraged to indicate that these resources will be provided by bp medtech by inserting a statement along the lines of “if selected for funding, we expect that the following resources will be made available to this project by the blueprint medtech program. since the program will provide these resources at no cost, this application does not request any labor or budget associated with these resources.” applicants should provide justification for why any of the above activities are not being utilized in the current application.schematics (optional – 1 page max):applications that exceed this limit will be withdrawn. this attachment should be entitled “schematics.pdf”. this attachment may include images, photos, drawings, engineering schematics, design specifics, and associated labeling and captions.communications with the irb (optional – 5 pages max):applications that exceed this limit will be withdrawn. this attachment should be entitled “irb communications.pdf”.applicants should submit relevant approval letters and associated attachments. for projects requiring non-clinical testing to support an irb nsr designation, preliminary communications (e.g., letter or other documentation) with the irb indicating what non-clinical testing will be necessary to support the nsr clinical study.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) sbir/sttr application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) sbir/sttr application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) sbir/sttr application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) sbir/sttr application guide must be followed.other plan(s):note: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023, the data management and sharing plan will be attached in the other plan(s) attachment in forms-h and subsequent application forms packages. for due dates on or before january 24, 2023, the data sharing plan and genomic data sharing plan gds) will continue to be attached in the resource sharing plan attachment in forms-g application forms packages.all applicants planning research (funded or conducted in whole or in part by nih) that results in the generation of scientific data are required to comply with the instructions for the data management and sharing plan. all small business innovation research (sbir) and small business technology transfer (sttr) applicants are required to address a data management and sharing plan, regardless of the amount of direct costs requested for any one year. however, sbir and sttr recipients may retain the rights to data generated during the performance of an sbir or sttr award for up to 20 years after the award date, per the small business innovation research (sbir) and small business technology transfer (sttr) program policy directive. an acceptable data management and sharing plan can reference and incorporate these data rights. further information about sbir and sttr data rights are enumerated in the nih gps.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) sbir/sttr application guide must be followed.specific aimsinclude aims delineated for the non-clinical testing and the clinical study.research strategythe research strategy section should include the following subsections:significancea. clinical impact and feasibilityplease note that each application should focus on only one neurological disorder or disease, even if the device proposed for development could be used for more than one indication. the target patient population and intended use should guide the design of the device and of the proposed clinical activities.b. supporting data for entrythe supporting data for entry section should contain, at a minimum, comprehensive data and information that validate the feasibility of conducting studies to address the specific aims. when presenting preliminary results, details about study design, execution, analysis, and interpretation must be included. pd(s)/pi(s) should explain the choice of models or assays used to collect preliminary data, and primary, secondary and exploratory endpoints collected and how they are clinically relevant.approacha. technology translation plan:applicants must include an overall plan for device development and translation to outline how the proposed technology will be adopted into clinical practice, based on the work included in the application and beyond. this plan should include:b. detailed plans for research strategy:in this section applicants should elaborate on their device testing strategy to enable the clinical studies. research plans and milestones for the clinical study (sbir phase ii) should be included in the phs human subjects and clinical trials information form. blinding, randomization, power analysis for sample size, and independent replication should be included in the application wherever possible.sbir phase i: non-clinical activities in sbir phase i should include:if a large animal safety study is not required by the fda for an ide, or a test of the full final system using final design and manufacturing processes is not required, applicants should note this in this section and include a communication from the fda clearly stating this is the case in the form of a response to a pre-submission via the “communication with regulatory bodies” attachment (phs human subjects and clinical trial information, section 4.5.a).c. milestones and timeline:application must include a milestone plan. milestones should be associated with clear, quantitative criteria for measuring success and efficacy that can be used for go/no-go decision makingsbir phase isbir phase ii:letters of supportapplicants should include a letter of support from consultants, contractors, and collaborators.resource sharing plan: individuals are required to comply with the instructions for the resource sharing plans as provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, with the following modification:appendix:note that phase i sbir/sttr appendix materials are not permitted. only limited items are allowed in the appendix of other small business applications. the instructions for the appendix of the research plan are described in the sf424 (r&r) application guide; any instructions provided here are in addition to the sf424 (r&r) application guide instructions.when involving human subjects research, clinical research, and/or nih-defined clinical trials follow all instructions for the phs human subjects and clinical trials information form in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, with the following additional instructions:if you answered “yes” to the question “are human subjects involved?” on the r&r other project information form, you must include at least one human subjects study record using the study record: phs human subjects and clinical trials information form or delayed onset study record.study record: phs human subjects and clinical trials informationall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.section 2 - study population characteristics2.7 study timelineattachment: 1 phase ii milestone plan: applicants are required to provide detailed project performance and timeline objectives (note, phase i milestones should be included in the research strategy section of the application). these milestones will be negotiated prior to issuing the notice of award. applications that lack a milestone plan are considered incomplete / non-responsive and will not be peer reviewed.examples of appropriate topics covered by sbir phase ii milestones include:section 3 - protection and monitoring plans3.1 protection of human subjectsin addition to the standard components, this section must include a neuroethics section. ethical considerations are intrinsic to the responsible conduct of neuroscience research and the translation of neuroscience advances (scientific and technological) into clinical practice. applicants are required to describe the ethical considerations related towhere relevant, applicants should describe how these ethical considerations are addressed in the study design and monitoring plan addressing the guiding principles below (see neuroethics guiding principles for the nih brain initiative for additional considerations).3.3 data safety and monitoring planattachment: dsmp: applicants must submit a data safety and monitoring plan and should consider guidelines and policies for monitoring clinical research in the formation of the plan as required by the appropriate ic. applicants should:3.5 overall structure of study teamattachment: team management plan (required – 2 pages max): applications that exceed this limit or do not include this attachment will be withdrawn. nih strongly encourages applicants to form diverse multidisciplinary teams that consist of non-clinical and clinical scientists, disease experts, regulatory experts, bioethics specialists, experts in manufacturing under quality systems and design controls, and other relevant academic, clinical, and/or industry experts including individuals who are underrepresented in the biomedical workforce (defined in nih not-od-20-03). this team should have the expertise to clearly define gaps to be addressed during this funding period, to develop the details of the project plans and experiments, and to successfully execute the research strategy and clinical study. an organizational structure that clearly defines the team structure and relationships among the various components must be described in the team management plan and illustrated in an organizational chart. this plan should also describe the governance and organizational structure of the leadership team and the research project, including communication plans, processes for making decisions on scientific direction, intellectual property, and procedures for resolving conflicts. for publications, policies to address the ordering and recognition of authors, and decisions about what material to publish, consistent with the interests of commercial partners (where applicable), should be presented.the team management plan must establish and name a scientific steering group (ssg) that consists of senior and/or key team members and meets regularly to discuss project status, problems, and directions. in cases of partnering organizations/institutions, the ssg should include representatives from each organization/institution. those individuals identified in the team management plan, who together would have the intellectual and leadership responsibilities, would likely be members of the ssg. technology transfer officials from the participating organizations are also encouraged to be members of the ssg. plans for enhancing the abilities and opportunities for investigators to work across disciplinary boundaries should also be included.section 4 - protocol synopsis4.5 will the study use an fda-regulated intervention?4.5.a. if yes, describe the availability of investigational product (ip) and investigational new drug (ind)/investigational device exemption (ide) status.attachment: communications with the fda:note: delayed onset does not apply to a study that can be described but will not start immediately (i.e., delayed start). all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.delayed onset trials are not responsive and will not be accepted.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) sbir/sttr application guide must be followed.see part 1. section iii.1 for information regarding the requirement for obtaining a unique entity identifier and for completing and maintaining active registrations in system for award management (sam), era commons, and grants.govpart i. overview information contains information about key dates and time. applicants are encouraged to submit applications before the due date to ensure they have time to make any application corrections that might be necessary for successful submission. when a submission date falls on a weekend or federal holiday, the application deadline is automatically extended to the next business day.organizations must submit applications to grants.gov (the online portal to find and apply for grants across all federal agencies). applicants must then complete the submission process by tracking the status of the application in the era commons, nih’s electronic system for grants administration. nih and grants.gov systems check the application against many of the application instructions upon submission. errors must be corrected and a changed/corrected application must be submitted to grants.gov on or before the application due date and time. if a changed/corrected application is submitted after the deadline, the application will be considered late. applications that miss the due date and time are subjected to the nih policy on late application submission.applicants are responsible for viewing their application before the due date in the era commons to ensure accurate and successful submission.information on the submission process and a definition of on-time submission are provided in the sf424 (r&r) sbir/sttr application guide.this initiative is not subject to intergovernmental review.all nih awards are subject to the terms and conditions, cost principles, and other considerations described in the nih grants policy statement.pre-award costs are allowable only as described in the nih grants policy statement.applications must be submitted electronically following the instructions described in the sf424 (r&r) sbir/sttr application guide. paper applications will not be accepted.applicants must complete all required registrations before the application due date. section iii. eligibility information contains information about registration.for assistance with your electronic application or for more information on the electronic submission process, visit how to apply – application guide. if you encounter a system issue beyond your control that threatens your ability to complete the submission process on-time, you must follow the dealing with system issues guidance. for assistance with application submission, contact the application submission contacts in section vii.important reminders:all pd(s)/pi(s) must include their era commons id in the credential field of the senior/key person profile component of the sf424(r&r) application package. failure to register in the commons and to include a valid pd/pi commons id in the credential field will prevent the successful submission of an electronic application to nih.the applicant organization must ensure that the duns number it provides on the application is the same number used in the organization’s profile in the era commons and for the system for award management (sam). additional information may be found in the sf424 (r&r) sbir/sttr application guide.see more tips for avoiding common errors.upon receipt, applications will be evaluated for completeness and compliance with application instructions by the center for scientific review and responsiveness by components of participating nih blueprint institutes and centers. applications that are incomplete, non-compliant and/or nonresponsive will not be reviewed.irb communications (optional – 5 pages max):fda communications (optional - 10 pages max):applicants should include a summary (1-page max) of interactions with the fda, supported by the following associated and attached documentation:note: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023, the data sharing plan and genomic data sharing plan (gds) as part of the resource sharing plan will not be evaluated at time of review.only the review criteria described below will be considered in the review process. applications submitted to the nih in support of the nih mission are evaluated for scientific and technical merit through the nih peer review system.for this particular announcement, note the following:in addition, for applications involving clinical trials: a proposed clinical trial application may include study design, methods, and intervention that are not by themselves innovative but address important questions or unmet needs. additionally, the results of the clinical trial may indicate that further clinical development of the intervention is unwarranted or lead to new avenues of scientific investigationreviewers will provide an overall impact score to reflect their assessment of the likelihood for the project to exert a sustained, powerful influence on the research field(s) involved, in consideration of the following review criteria and additional review criteria (as applicable for the project proposed).reviewers will consider each of the review criteria below in the determination of scientific merit, and give a separate score for each. an application does not need to be strong in all categories to be judged likely to have major scientific impact. for example, a project that by its nature is not innovative may be essential to advance a field.significancedoes the project address an important problem or a critical barrier to progress in the field?is the prior research that serves as the key support for the proposed project rigorous? if the aims of the project are achieved, how will scientific knowledge, technical capability, and/or clinical practice be improved? how will successful completion of the aims change the concepts, methods, technologies, treatments, services, or preventative interventions that drive this field? does the proposed project have commercial potential to lead to a marketable product, process or service? (in the case of phase ii, fast-track, and phase ii competing renewals, does the commercialization plan demonstrate a high probability of commercialization?)specific to this announcement: supporting data for entry:in addition, for applications involving clinical trialsare the scientific rationale and need for a clinical trial to test the proposed hypothesis or intervention well supported by preliminary data, clinical and/or preclinical studies, or information in the literature or knowledge of biological mechanisms? for trials focusing on clinical or public health endpoints, is this clinical trial necessary for testing the safety, efficacy or effectiveness of an intervention that could lead to a change in clinical practice, community behaviors or health care policy? for trials focusing on mechanistic, behavioral, physiological, biochemical, or other biomedical endpoints, is this trial needed to advance scientific understanding?investigator(s)are the pd(s)/pi(s), collaborators, and other researchers well suited to the project? if early stage investigators or those in the early stages of independent careers, do they have appropriate experience and training? if established, have they demonstrated an ongoing record of accomplishments that have advanced their field(s)? if the project is collaborative or multi-pd/pi, do the investigators have complementary and integrated expertise; are their leadership approach, governance and organizational structure appropriate for the project?specific to this announcement:team management plan (attachment):in addition, for applications involving clinical trialswith regard to the proposed leadership for the project, do the pd/pi(s) and key personnel have the expertise, experience, and ability to organize, manage and implement the proposed clinical trial and meet milestones and timelines? do they have appropriate expertise in study coordination, data management and statistics? for a multicenter trial, is the organizational structure appropriate and does the application identify a core of potential center investigators and staffing for a coordinating center?innovationdoes the application challenge and seek to shift current research or clinical practice paradigms by utilizing novel theoretical concepts, approaches or methodologies, instrumentation, or interventions? are the concepts, approaches or methodologies, instrumentation, or interventions novel to one field of research or novel in a broad sense? is a refinement, improvement, or new application of theoretical concepts, approaches or methodologies, instrumentation, or interventions proposed?specific to this announcement:in addition, for applications involving clinical trialsdoes the design/research plan include innovative elements, as appropriate, that enhance its sensitivity, potential for information or potential to advance scientific knowledge or clinical practice?approachare the overall strategy, methodology, and analyses well-reasoned and appropriate to accomplish the specific aims of the project? have the investigators included plans to address weaknesses in the rigor of prior research that serves as the key support for the proposed project? have the investigators presented strategies to ensure a robust and unbiased approach, as appropriate for the work proposed? are potential problems, alternative strategies, and benchmarks for success presented? if the project is in the early stages of development, will the strategy establish feasibility and will particularly risky aspects be managed? for a phase i application, are there clear, appropriate, measurable goals (milestones) that should be achieved prior to initiating phase ii? have the investigators presented adequate plans to address relevant biological variables, such as sex, for studies in vertebrate animals or human subjects?specific to this announcement:overall technology translation plan:detailed plans for research strategy (including milestones and timelines):long-term patient care:in addition, for applications involving clinical trials:does the application adequately address the following:study designis the study design justified and appropriate to address primary and secondary outcome variable(s)/endpoints that will be clear, informative and relevant to the hypothesis being tested? is the scientific rationale/premise of the study based on previously well-designed preclinical and/or clinical research? given the methods used to assign participants and deliver interventions, is the study design adequately powered to answer the research question(s), test the proposed hypothesis/hypotheses, and provide interpretable results? is the trial appropriately designed to conduct the research efficiently? are the study populations (size, gender, age, demographic group), proposed intervention arms/dose, and duration of the trial, appropriate and well-justified?are potential ethical issues adequately addressed? is the process for obtaining informed consent or assent appropriate? is the eligible population available? are the plans for recruitment outreach, enrollment, retention, handling dropouts, missed visits, and losses to follow-up appropriate to ensure robust data collection? are the planned recruitment timelines feasible and is the plan to monitor accrual adequate? has the need for randomization (or not), masking (if appropriate), controls, and inclusion/exclusion criteria been addressed? are differences addressed, if applicable, in the intervention effect due to sex/gender and race/ethnicity?are the plans to standardize, assure quality of, and monitor adherence to, the trial protocol and data collection or distribution guidelines appropriate? is there a plan to obtain required study agent(s)? does the application propose to use existing available resources, as applicable?data management and statistical analysisare planned analyses and statistical approach appropriate for the proposed study design and methods used to assign participants and deliver interventions? are the procedures for data management and quality control of data adequate at clinical site(s) or at center laboratories, as applicable? have the methods for standardization of procedures for data management to assess the effect of the intervention and quality control been addressed? is there a plan to complete data analysis within the proposed period of the award?if the project involves human subjects and/or nih-defined clinical research, are the plans to address1) the protection of human subjects from research risks, and2) inclusion (or exclusion) of individuals on the basis of sex/gender, race, and ethnicity, as well as the inclusion or exclusion of individuals of all ages (including children and older adults), justified in terms of the scientific goals and research strategy proposed?environmentwill the scientific environment in which the work will be done contribute to the probability of success? are the institutional support, equipment and other physical resources available to the investigators adequate for the project proposed? will the project benefit from unique features of the scientific environment, subject populations, or collaborative arrangement?specific to this announcement:in addition, for applications involving clinical trialsif proposed, are the administrative, data coordinating, enrollment and laboratory/testing centers, appropriate for the trial proposed?does the application adequately address the capability and ability to conduct the trial at the proposed site(s) or centers? are the plans to add or drop enrollment centers, as needed, appropriate?if international site(s) is/are proposed, does the application adequately address the complexity of executing the clinical trial?if multi-sites/centers, is there evidence of the ability of the individual site or center to: (1) enroll the proposed numbers; (2) adhere to the protocol; (3) collect and transmit data in an accurate and timely fashion; and, (4) operate within the proposed organizational structure?as applicable for the project proposed, reviewers will evaluate the following additional items while determining scientific and technical merit, and in providing an overall impact score, but will not give separate scores for these items.study timeline and milestone planspecific to applications involving clinical trialsis the study timeline described in detail, taking into account start-up activities, the anticipated rate of enrollment, and planned follow-up assessment? is the projected timeline feasible and well justified? does the project incorporate efficiencies and utilize existing resources (e.g., ctsas, practice-based research networks, electronic medical records, administrative database, or patient registries) to increase the efficiency of participant enrollment and data collection, as appropriate?are potential challenges and corresponding solutions discussed (e.g., strategies that can be implemented in the event of enrollment shortfalls)?phase i:phase ii:phase ii applicationsfor phase ii applications, how well did the applicant demonstrate progress toward meeting the phase i (or phase i-like) objectives, demonstrating feasibility, and providing a solid foundation for the proposed phase ii activity?phase i/phase ii fast-track applicationsfor phase i/phase ii fast-track applications, reviewers will consider the following:1. does the phase i application specify clear, appropriate, measurable goals (milestones) that should be achieved prior to initiating phase ii?2. to what extent was the applicant able to obtain letters of interest, additional funding commitments, and/or resources from the private sector or non-sbir/sttr funding sources that would enhance the likelihood for commercialization?protections for human subjectsfor research that involves human subjects but does not involve one of the categories of research that are exempt under 45 cfr part 46, the committee will evaluate the justification for involvement of human subjects and the proposed protections from research risk relating to their participation according to the following five review criteria: 1) risk to subjects, 2) adequacy of protection against risks, 3) potential benefits to the subjects and others, 4) importance of the knowledge to be gained, and 5) data and safety monitoring for clinical trials.for research that involves human subjects and meets the criteria for one or more of the categories of research that are exempt under 45 cfr part 46, the committee will evaluate: 1) the justification for the exemption, 2) human subjects involvement and characteristics, and 3) sources of materials. for additional information on review of the human subjects section, please refer to the guidelines for the review of human subjects.inclusion of women, minorities, and individuals across the lifespanwhen the proposed project involves human subjects and/or nih-defined clinical research, the committee will evaluate the proposed plans for the inclusion (or exclusion) of individuals on the basis of sex/gender, race, and ethnicity, as well as the inclusion (or exclusion) of individuals of all ages (including children and older adults) to determine if it is justified in terms of the scientific goals and research strategy proposed. for additional information on review of the inclusion section, please refer to the guidelines for the review of inclusion in clinical research.vertebrate animalsthe committee will evaluate the involvement of live vertebrate animals as part of the scientific assessment according to the following criteria: (1) description of proposed procedures involving animals, including species, strains, ages, sex, and total number to be used; (2) justifications for the use of animals versus alternative models and for the appropriateness of the species proposed; (3) interventions to minimize discomfort, distress, pain and injury; and (4) justification for euthanasia method if not consistent with the avma guidelines for the euthanasia of animals. reviewers will assess the use of chimpanzees as they would any other application proposing the use of vertebrate animals. for additional information on review of the vertebrate animals section, please refer to the worksheet for review of the vertebrate animal section.biohazardsreviewers will assess whether materials or procedures proposed are potentially hazardous to research personnel and/or the environment, and if needed, determine whether adequate protection is proposed.resubmissionsfor resubmissions, the committee will evaluate the application as now presented, taking into consideration the responses to comments from the previous scientific review group and changes made to the project.phase iib competing renewalsnot applicablerevisionsfor revisions, the committee will consider the appropriateness of the proposed expansion of the scope of the project. if the revision application relates to a specific line of investigation presented in the original application that was not recommended for approval by the committee, then the committee will consider whether the responses to comments from the previous scientific review group are adequate and whether substantial changes are clearly evident.note: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023, the data sharing plan and genomic data sharing plan (gds) as part of the resource sharing plan will not be evaluated at time of review.as applicable for the project proposed, reviewers will consider each of the following items, but will not give scores for these items, and should not consider them in providing an overall impact score.select agent researchreviewers will assess the information provided in this section of the application, including 1) the select agent(s) to be used in the proposed research, 2) the registration status of all entities where select agent(s) will be used, 3) the procedures that will be used to monitor possession use and transfer of select agent(s), and 4) plans for appropriate biosafety, biocontainment, and security of the select agent(s).reviewers will comment on whether the following resource sharing plans, or the rationale for not sharing the following types of resources, are reasonable: (1) data sharing plan; (2) sharing model organisms; and (3) genomic data sharing plan.authentication of key biological and/or chemical resources:for projects involving key biological and/or chemical resources, reviewers will comment on the brief plans proposed for identifying and ensuring the validity of those resources.budget and period of supportreviewers will consider whether the budget and the requested period of support are fully justified and reasonable in relation to the proposed research.applications will be evaluated for scientific and technical merit by (an) appropriate scientific review group(s) convened by national institute of neurological disorders and stroke (ninds), in accordance with nih peer review policy and procedures, using the stated review criteria. assignment to a scientific review group will be shown in the era commons.as part of the scientific peer review, all applications will receive a written critique.applications may undergo a committee process in which only those applications deemed to have the highest scientific and technical merit (generally the top half of applications under review) will be discussed and assigned an overall impact score.applications will be assigned on the basis of established phs referral guidelines to the appropriate nih institute or center. applications will compete for available funds with all other recommended applications. following initial peer review, recommended applications will receive a second level of review by the appropriate national advisory council or board. the following will be considered in making funding decisions:information regarding the disposition of applications is available in the nih grants policy statement.if the application is under consideration for funding, nih will request "just-in-time" information from the applicant as described in the nih grants policy statement.a formal notification in the form of a notice of award (noa) will be provided to the applicant organization for successful applications. the noa signed by the grants management officer is the authorizing document and will be sent via email to the recipient's business official.recipients must comply with any funding restrictions described in section iv.5. funding restrictions. selection of an application for award is not an authorization to begin performance. any costs incurred before receipt of the noa are at the recipient's risk. these costs may be reimbursed only to the extent considered allowable pre-award costs.any application awarded in response to this foa will be subject to terms and conditions found on the award conditions and information for nih grants website. this includes any recent legislation and policy applicable to awards that is highlighted on this website.additionally, ics may specify any special reporting requirements for the proposed clinical study to be included under ic-specific terms and conditions in the noa. for example: if the proposed clinical study has elevated risks, ics may require closer programmatic monitoring and it may be necessary to require the recipient to provide more frequent information and data as a term of the award (e.g., to clarify issues, address and evaluate concerns, provide documentation). all additional communications and information related to programmatic monitoring must be documented and incorporated into the official project file. individual awards are based on the application submitted to, and as approved by, the nih and are subject to the ic-specific terms and conditions identified in the noa.clinicaltrials.gov: if an award provides for one or more clinical studies. by law (title viii, section 801 of public law 110-85), the "responsible party" must register and submit results information for certain “applicable clinical trials” on the clinicaltrials.gov protocol registration and results system information website (https://register.clinicaltrials.gov). nih expects registration of all trials whether required under the law or not. for more information, see http://grants.nih.gov/clinicaltrials_fdaaa/institutional review board or independent ethics committee approval: grantee institutions must ensure that the application as well as all protocols are reviewed by their irb or iec. to help ensure the safety of participants enrolled in nih-funded studies, the recipient must provide nih copies of documents related to all major changes in the status of ongoing protocols.data and safety monitoring requirements: the nih policy for data and safety monitoring requires oversight and monitoring of all nih-conducted or -supported human biomedical and behavioral intervention studies (clinical trials) to ensure the safety of participants and the validity and integrity of the data. further information concerning these requirements is found at http://grants.nih.gov/grants/policy/hs/data_safety.htm and in the application instructions (sf424 (r&r) and phs 398).investigational new drug or investigational device exemption requirements: consistent with federal regulations, clinical research projects involving the use of investigational therapeutics, vaccines, or other medical interventions (including licensed products and devices for a purpose other than that for which they were licensed) in humans under a research protocol must be performed under a food and drug administration (fda) investigational new drug (ind) or investigational device exemption (ide)all nih grant and cooperative agreement awards include the nih grants policy statement as part of the noa. for these terms of award, see the nih grants policy statement part ii: terms and conditions of nih grant awards, subpart a: general and part ii: terms and conditions of nih grant awards, subpart b: terms and conditions for specific types of grants, recipients, and activities. more information is provided at award conditions and information for nih grants.recipients of federal financial assistance (ffa) from hhs must administer their programs in compliance with federal civil rights laws that prohibit discrimination on the basis of race, color, national origin, disability, age and, in some circumstances, religion, conscience, and sex. this includes ensuring programs are accessible to persons with limited english proficiency. the hhs office for civil rights provides guidance on complying with civil rights laws enforced by hhs. please see https://www.hhs.gov/civil-rights/for-providers/provider-obligations/index.html and http://www.hhs.gov/ocr/civilrights/understanding/section1557/index.html.hhs recognizes that research projects are often limited in scope for many reasons that are nondiscriminatory, such as the principal investigator’s scientific interest, funding limitations, recruitment requirements, and other considerations. thus, criteria in research protocols that target or exclude certain populations are warranted where nondiscriminatory justifications establish that such criteria are appropriate with respect to the health or safety of the subjects, the scientific study design, or the purpose of the research. for additional guidance regarding how the provisions apply to nih grant programs, please contact the scientific/research contact that is identified in section vii under agency contacts of this foa.please contact the hhs office for civil rights for more information about obligations and prohibitions under federal civil rights laws at https://www.hhs.gov/ocr/about-us/contact-us/index.html or call 1-800-368-1019 or tdd 1-800-537-7697.in accordance with the statutory provisions contained in section 872 of the duncan hunter national defense authorization act of fiscal year 2009 (public law 110-417), nih awards will be subject to the federal awardee performance and integrity information system (fapiis) requirements. fapiis requires federal award making officials to review and consider information about an applicant in the designated integrity and performance system (currently fapiis) prior to making an award. an applicant, at its option, may review information in the designated integrity and performance systems accessible through fapiis and comment on any information about itself that a federal agency previously entered and is currently in fapiis. the federal awarding agency will consider any comments by the applicant, in addition to other information in fapiis, in making a judgement about the applicant’s integrity, business ethics, and record of performance under federal awards when completing the review of risk posed by applicants as described in 45 cfr part 75.205 “federal awarding agency review of risk posed by applicants.” this provision will apply to all nih grants and cooperative agreements except fellowships.the office of inspector general hotline accepts tips from all sources about potential fraud, waste, abuse and mismanagement in department of health & human services programs. the reporting individual should indicate that the fraud, waste and/or abuse concerns an sbir/sttr grant or contract, if relevant. report fraud.the following special terms of award are in addition to, and not in lieu of, otherwise applicable u.s. office of management and budget (omb) administrative guidelines, u.s. department of health and human services (dhhs) grant administration regulations at 45 cfr parts 75, 2 cfr 200 and other hhs, phs, and nih grant administration policies. the administrative and funding instrument used for this program will be the cooperative agreement, an "assistance" mechanism (rather than an "acquisition" mechanism), in which substantial nih programmatic involvement with the recipients is anticipated during the performance of the activities. under the cooperative agreement, the nih purpose is to support and stimulate the recipients' activities by involvement in and otherwise working jointly with the award recipients in a partnership role; it is not to assume direction, prime responsibility, or a dominant role in the activities. consistent with this concept, the dominant role and prime responsibility resides with the recipients for the project as a whole, although specific tasks and activities may be shared among the recipients and the nih as defined below.the pd(s)/pi(s) will have the primary responsibility for:nih staff have substantial programmatic involvement that is above and beyond the normal stewardship role in awards, as described below:collaborative responsibilities:dispute resolution:any disagreements that may arise in scientific or programmatic matters (within the scope of the award) between award recipients and the nih may be brought to dispute resolution. a dispute resolution panel composed of three members will be convened. it will have three members: a designee of the external oversight committee chosen without nih staff voting, one nih designee, and a third designee with expertise in the relevant area who is chosen by the other two; in the case of individual disagreement, the first member may be chosen by the individual recipient. this special dispute resolution procedure does not alter the recipient's right to appeal an adverse action that is otherwise appealable in accordance with phs regulation 42 cfr part 50, subpart d and dhhs regulation 45 cfr part 16.data management and sharingnote: the nih policy for data management and sharing is effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023.consistent with the nih policy for data management and sharing, when data management and sharing is applicable to the award, recipients will be required to adhere to the data management and sharing requirements as outlined in the nih grants policy statement (gps). upon the approval of a data management and sharing plan, it is required for recipients to implement the plan as described. sbir and sttr recipients may retain the rights to data generated during the performance of an sbir or sttr award for up to 20 years after the award date, per the small business innovation research (sbir) and small business technology transfer (sttr) program policy directive. an acceptable data management and sharing plan can reference and incorporate these data rights. further information about sbir and sttr data rights are enumerated in the nih gps.nih requires that sbir/sttr recipients submit the following reports within 120 days of the end of the grant budget period unless the recipient is under an extension. when multiple years are involved, recipients will be required to submit the research performance progress report (rppr) annually and financial statements as required in the nih grants policy statement.failure to submit timely final reports may affect future funding to the organization or awards with the same pd/pi.the federal funding accountability and transparency act of 2006 (transparency act), includes a requirement for recipients of federal grants to report information about first-tier subawards and executive compensation under federal assistance awards issued in fy2011 or later. all recipients of applicable nih grants and cooperative agreements are required to report to the federal subaward reporting system (fsrs) available at www.fsrs.gov on all subawards over $25,000. see the nih grants policy statement for additional information on this reporting requirement.in accordance with the regulatory requirements provided at 45 cfr 75.113 and appendix xii to 45 cfr part 75, recipients that have currently active federal grants, cooperative agreements, and procurement contracts from all federal awarding agencies with a cumulative total value greater than $10,000,000 for any period of time during the period of performance of a federal award, must report and maintain the currency of information reported in the system for award management (sam) about civil, criminal, and administrative proceedings in connection with the award or performance of a federal award that reached final disposition within the most recent five-year period. the recipient must also make semiannual disclosures regarding such proceedings. proceedings information will be made publicly available in the designated integrity and performance system (currently fapiis). this is a statutory requirement under section 872 of public law 110-417, as amended (41 u.s.c. 2313). as required by section 3010 of public law 111-212, all information posted in the designated integrity and performance system on or after april 15, 2011, except past performance reviews required for federal procurement contracts, will be publicly available. full reporting requirements and procedures are found in appendix xii to 45 cfr part 75 – award term and conditions for recipient integrity and performance matters.we encourage inquiries concerning this funding opportunity and welcome the opportunity to answer questions from potential applicants.era service desk (questions regarding assist, era commons, application errors and warnings, documenting system problems that threaten submission by the due date, and post-submission issues)finding help online: http://grants.nih.gov/support/ (preferred method of contact) telephone: 301-402-7469 or 866-504-9552 (toll free)general grants information (questions regarding application instructions, application processes, and nih grant resources) email: grantsinfo@nih.gov (preferred method of contact) telephone: 301-637-3015grants.gov customer support (questions regarding grants.gov registration and workspace) contact center telephone: 800-518-4726 email: support@grants.govsba company registry (questions regarding required registration at the sba company registry and for technical questions or issues) website to email: http://sbir.gov/feedback?type=regleonardo angelone, ph.d national institute on drug abuse (nida) email: blueprint-medtech@nih.govstacie gutowski, phd national institute on drug abuse (nida) email: blueprint-medtech@nih.govmerav sabri, ph.d. national center for complementary and integrative health (nccih) phone: 301- 496-2583 e-mail: merav.sabri@nih.govthomas greenwell national eye institute (nei) phone: 301-443-5405 e-mail: greenwellt@mail.nih.govelizabeth powell national institute on alcohol abuse and alcoholism (niaaa) phone: 301-443-0786 e-mail: elizabeth.powell3@nih.govmichael wolfson national institute of biomedical imaging and bioengineering (nibib) phone: 301-451-4778 e-mail: michael.wolfson@nih.govtheresa hayes cruz, phd eunice kennedy shriver national institute of child health and human development (nichd) telephone: 301-496-9233 email: cruzth@mail.nih.govmelissa m ghim, phd national institute of dental & craniofacial research (nidcr) phone: none e-mail: ghimm@mail.nih.govmargaret grabb, ph.d. national institute of mental health (nimh) telephone: 301-443-3563 email: mgrabb@mail.nih.govnick langhals, phd national institute of neurological disorders and stroke (ninds) telephone: 301-496-1779 email: ninds-devices@nih.govchief, scientific review branch national institute of neurological disorders and stroke (ninds) telephone: 301-496-9223 email: nindsreview.nih.gov@mail.nih.govamy connolly national institute on drug abuse (nida) email: connolla@mail.nih.govshelley headley national center for complementary and integrative health (nccih) phone: 301-594-3788 email: shelley.headley@nih.govkaren robinsonsmith national eye institute (nei) phone: (301) 451-2020 e-mail: kyr@nei.nih.govjill morris national institute on aging (nia) phone: 301-496-8986 email: morrisjil@mail.nih.gov jeffrey thurston national institute on alcohol abuse and alcoholism (niaaa) phone: 301-443-9801 e-mail: thurstoj@mail.nih.gov margaret young eunice kennedy shriver national institute of child health and human development (nichd) telephone: 301-642-4552 email: margaret.young@nih.govdiana rutberg, mba national institute of dental & craniofacial research (nidcr) phone: (301) 594-4798 e-mail: dr258t@nih.govjane lin national institute of mental health (nimh) telephone: 301-443-2229 email: linja@mail.nih.govjeffrey thurston national institute on alcohol abuse and alcoholism (niaaa) phone: 301-443-9801 e-mail: thurstoj@mail.nih.govmargaret young eunice kennedy shriver national institute of child health and human development (nichd) telephone: 301-642-4552 email: margaret.young@nih.govdiana rutberg, mba national institute of dental & craniofacial research (nidcr) phone: (301) 594-4798 e-mail: dr258t@nih.govrecently issued trans-nih policy notices may affect your application submission. a full list of policy notices published by nih is provided in the nih guide for grants and contracts. all awards are subject to the terms and conditions, cost principles, and other considerations described in the nih grants policy statement.awards are made under the authorization of sections 301 and 405 of the public health service act as amended (42 usc 241 and 284) and under federal regulations 42 cfr part 52, 45 cfr part 75, and 2 cfr 200.the sbir program is mandated by the small business innovation development act of 1982 (p.l. 97-219), reauthorizing legislation (p.l. 99-443) p.l. 102-564, p.l. 112-81 (sbir/sttr reauthorization act of 2011), as reauthorized and extended under p.l. 114-328, section 1834, and p.l. 115-232. the basic design of the nih sbir program is in accordance with the small business administration (sba) sbir policy directive.weekly toc for this announcement nih funding opportunities and noticesnote: for help accessing pdf, rtf, ms word, excel, powerpoint, audio or video files, see help downloading files.