NIMH Short Courses for Mental Health Related Research (R25 -Independent Clinical Trial Not Allowed)
https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/pa-files/PAR-23-265.html
national institutes of health (nih)national institute of mental health (nimh)r25 education projectsjuly 22, 2019 - requirement for orcid ids for individuals supported by research training, fellowship, research education, and career development awards beginning in fy 2020. see notice not-od-19-109not-od-23-012 - reminder: forms-h grant application forms & instructions must be used for due dates on or after january 25, 2023 - new grant application instructions now availablesee section iii. 3. additional information on eligibility.the nih research education program (r25) supports research education activities in the mission areas of the nih. the overarching goal of this r25 program is to support educational activities that complement and/or enhance the training of a workforce to meet the nation’s biomedical, behavioral and clinical research needs.to accomplish the stated over-arching goal, this foa will support creative educational activities with a primary focus on:proposed short courses are expected to facilitate the development of a cadre of investigators with the requisite scientific research skills to advance the mission of the nimh. each short course is expected to include both didactics and hands-on research experiences. participants are limited to graduate/medical students, medical residents, postdoctoral scholars, and/or early-career investigators.30 days before the application due dateall applications are due by 5:00 pm local time of applicant organization.applicants are encouraged to apply early to allow adequate time to make any corrections to errors found in the application during the submission process by the due date.not applicableit is critical that applicants follow the instructions in the research (r) instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, except where instructed to do otherwise (in this foa or in a notice from nih guide for grants and contracts).conformance to all requirements (both in the application guide and the foa) is required and strictly enforced. applicants must read and follow all application instructions in the application guide as well as any program-specific instructions noted in section iv. when the program-specific instructions deviate from those in the application guide, follow the program-specific instructions.applications that do not comply with these instructions may be delayed or not accepted for review.there are several options available to submit your application through grants.gov to nih and department of health and human services partners. you must use one of these submission options to access the application forms for this opportunity.the nih research education program (r25) supports research educational activities that complement other formal training programs in the mission areas of the nih institutes and centers.the overarching goal of this r25 program is to support educational activities that complement and/or enhance the training of a workforce to meet the nation’s biomedical, behavioral and clinical research needs.to accomplish the stated over-arching goal, this foa will support innovative educational activities with a primary focus on:this foa will support the development, implementation, and evaluation of innovative and interactive short courses for scientists interested in learning state-of-the-art skills needed to conduct cutting-edge mental health research. the conceptual and methodological topics included in each short course must be clearly related to the mission of the nimh and are expected to reflect one or more aspects of the current strategic research priorities of the nimh. the interests of the nimh are broad, spanning from basic neuroscience, human genetics/genomics and translational research to interventions and mental health services research across the lifespan.mental health research has seen extraordinary changes over the past decade, with the rapid development of new and increasingly complex tools, techniques, and approaches. these developments are expected to continue or increase in pace over the coming years, as the next generation of tools and technologies are being developed via programs like the brain initiative. there is thus a growing need for individuals to learn cutting-edge research methods and incorporate them in their research. if sufficiently justified, short courses that provide instruction in the rigorous application of more established methods/techniques are appropriate for this funding announcement. short courses provide a unique opportunity to enable the rapid and widespread dissemination of new methods and approaches.in support of the nih policy on enhancing the rigor and reproducibility of nih-supported research through robust study design and reporting (nih rigor and reproducibility; see also not-od-15-103), the principles underlying rigorous and reproducible research are expected to be incorporated throughout a proposed short course. participants should obtain a strong understanding of the requirements of experimental rigor and how to build such processes into their research projects. courses should incorporate education in quantitative reasoning, experimental design, statistics and analytic techniques appropriate to the content and duration of the proposed course.depending on the stated goals of the proposed short course, course duration can vary from a few days to a maximum of 12 weeks. programs must be designed for, and available to, a national audience. programs intended for a local or regional audience are not appropriate for this foa. nimh encourages programs that provide state-of-the-art, pedagogical opportunities for individuals during the formative stage of their careers. participants are limited to graduate/medical students, medical residents, postdoctoral scholars, and/or early-career investigators. the nimh expects all programs to foster diversity, and encourages the participation of individuals from racial and ethnic groups underrepresented in biomedical and behavioral research, individuals with disabilities, and women (see recruitment plan to enhance diversity below).this foa is one of a suite of four thematic funding opportunities with the goal of augmenting the education and training of the scientific workforce to meet the nation’s biomedical, behavioral, and clinical research needs in the mission areas of the nimh. these funding opportunities include: 1) short courses for mental health-related research education (this foa); 2) research education programs supporting psychiatry residents (par-23-266); 3) mentoring networks for mental health research education (par-23-253); and 4) research education mentoring programs for hiv/aids researchers (par-21-228). applications in the area of hiv/aids research education will only be accepted in response to par-21-228.applicants are strongly encouraged to contact nimh scientific/research staff for current information about program priorities and policies before preparing an application (see section vii).research education programs may complement ongoing research training and education occurring at the applicant institution, but the proposed educational experiences must be distinct from those training and education programs currently receiving federal support. r25 programs may augment institutional research training programs (e.g., t32, t90) but cannot be used to replace or circumvent ruth l. kirschstein national research service award (nrsa) programs.see section viii. other information for award authorities and regulations.grant: a support mechanism providing money, property, or both to an eligible entity to carry out an approved project or activity.not allowed: only accepting applications that do not propose clinical trial(s).need help determining whether you are doing a clinical trial?the number of awards is contingent upon nih appropriations and the submission of a sufficient number of meritorious applications.application budgets may not exceed $200,000 in direct costs annually and are expected to reflect actual needs of the proposed project.the scope of the proposed project should determine the project period. the maximum period is 5 years.individuals designing, directing, and implementing the research education program may request salary and fringe benefits appropriate for the person months devoted to the program. salaries requested may not exceed the levels commensurate with the institution's policy for similar positions and may not exceed the congressionally mandated cap. (if mentoring interactions and other activities with participants are considered a regular part of an individual's academic duties, then any costs associated with the mentoring and other interactions with participants are not allowable costs from grant funds).administrative and clerical costs, as well as salaries of the pd/pi and other investigators/faculty associated with directing, coordinating, administering, and implementing the program should be well-justified, reasonable, and may not exceed 25% of the total direct costs in any year. consultant costs may not be used to substitute for these costs.participants may be compensated for participation in activities specifically required by the proposed research education program, if sufficiently justified. participant costs must be itemized in the proposed budget.allowable participant costs depend on the educational level/career status of the individuals to be selected to participate in the program.while generally not an allowable cost, with strong justification, participants in the research education program may receive per diem unless such costs are furnished as part of the registration fee. participants may also receive funds to defray partial tuition and other education-related expenses.expenses for foreign travel must be exceptionally well justified.individuals supported by nih training and career development mechanisms (k, t, or f awards) may receive, and indeed are encouraged to receive, educational experiences supported by an r25 program, as participants, but may not receive salary or stipend supplementation from a research education program.because the r25 program is not intended as a substitute for an nrsa institutional training program (e.g.,t32), costs to support full-time participants (supported for 40 hours/week for a continuous, 12-month period) are not allowable.consultant costs, equipment, supplies, travel for key persons, and other program-related expenses may be included in the proposed budget. these expenses must be justified as specifically required by the proposed program and must not duplicate items generally available at the applicant institution.consultant costs may not be used to substitute for personnel costs.indirect costs (also known as facilities & administrative [f&a] costs) are reimbursed at 8% of modified total direct costs (exclusive of tuition and fees, expenditures for equipment and consortium costs in excess of $25,000), rather than on the basis of a negotiated rate agreement.nih grants policies as described in the nih grants policy statement will apply to the applications submitted and awards made from this foa.1. eligible applicantshigher education institutionsthe following types of higher education institutions are always encouraged to apply for nih support as public or private institutions of higher education:nonprofits other than institutions of higher educationfor-profit organizationsgovernmentsfederal governmentsotherthe sponsoring institution must assure support for the proposed program. appropriate institutional commitment to the program includes the provision of adequate staff, facilities, and educational resources that can contribute to the planned program.institutions with existing ruth l. kirschstein national research service award (nrsa) institutional training grants (e.g., t32) or other federally funded training programs may apply for a research education grant provided that the proposed educational experiences are distinct from those training programs receiving federal support. in many cases, it is anticipated that the proposed research education program will complement ongoing research training occurring at the applicant institution.non-domestic (non-u.s.) entities (foreign institutions) are not eligible to applynon-domestic (non-u.s.) components of u.s. organizations are not eligible to apply.foreign components, as defined in the nih grants policy statement, are allowed.applicant organizationsapplicant organizations must complete and maintain the following registrations as described in the sf 424 (r&r) application guide to be eligible to apply for or receive an award. all registrations must be completed prior to the application being submitted. registration can take 6 weeks or more, so applicants should begin the registration process as soon as possible. the nih policy on late submission of grant applications states that failure to complete registrations in advance of a due date is not a valid reason for a late submission.program directors/principal investigators (pd(s)/pi(s))all pd(s)/pi(s) must have an era commons account. pd(s)/pi(s) should work with their organizational officials to either create a new account or to affiliate their existing account with the applicant organization in era commons. if the pd/pi is also the organizational signing official, they must have two distinct era commons accounts, one for each role. obtaining an era commons account can take up to 2 weeks.any individual(s) with the skills, knowledge, and resources necessary to carry out the proposed research as the program director(s)/principal investigator(s) (pd(s)/pi(s)) is invited to work with his/her organization to develop an application for support. individuals from diverse backgrounds, including underrepresented racial and ethnic groups, individuals with disabilities, and women are always encouraged to apply for nih support. see, reminder: notice of nih's encouragement of applications supporting individuals from underrepresented ethnic and racial groups as well as individuals with disabilities, not-od-22-019.for institutions/organizations proposing multiple pds/pis, visit the multiple program director/principal investigator policy and submission details in the senior/key person profile (expanded) component of the sf424 (r&r) application guide.the pd/pi should be an established investigator in the scientific area in which the application is targeted and capable of providing both administrative and scientific leadership to the development and implementation of the proposed program. the pd/pi will be expected to monitor and assess the program and submit all documents and reports as required.the pd(s)/pi(s) should have a strong track record as an educator in a scientific area related to the topic of the proposed short course.2. cost sharingthis foa does not require cost sharing as defined in the nih grants policy statement.3. additional information on eligibilitynumber of applicationsapplicant organizations may submit more than one application, provided that each application is scientifically distinct.the nih will not accept duplicate or highly overlapping applications under review at the same time per 2.3.7.4 submission of resubmission application. this means that the nih will not accept:program facultyit is essential that trainees have exposure and access to faculty with a broad range of expertise and perspectives. researchers from diverse backgrounds, including racial and ethnic minorities, persons with disabilities, and women are encouraged to participate as program faculty. faculty should have research expertise and experience relevant to the proposed program. prior experience as educators is strongly encouraged.programs that include faculty participation through a foreign component should be well-justified and should clearly describe the benefit to the research education program (e.g., unique expertise of the faculty member).unless strongly justified on the basis of exceptional relevance to nih, research education programs should be used primarily for the education of u.s. citizens and permanent residents. participants are limited to graduate/medical students, medical residents, postdoctoral scholars, and/or early-career investigators.1. requesting an application packagethe application forms package specific to this opportunity must be accessed through assist, grants.gov workspace or an institutional system-to-system solution. links to apply using assist or grants.gov workspace are available in part 1 of this foa. see your administrative office for instructions if you plan to use an institutional system-to-system solution.2. content and form of application submissionit is critical that applicants follow the instructions in the research (r) instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, except where instructed in this funding opportunity announcement to do otherwise. conformance to the requirements in the application guide is required and strictly enforced. applications that are out of compliance with these instructions will not be reviewed.letter of intentalthough a letter of intent is not required, is not binding, and does not enter into the review of a subsequent application, the information that it contains allows ic staff to estimate the potential review workload and plan the review.by the date listed in part 1. overview information, prospective applicants are asked to submit a letter of intent that includes the following information:the letter of intent should be sent to:nimhpeerreview@mail.nih.govthe following section supplements the instructions found in the sf424 (r&r) application guide and should be used for preparing an application to this foa.follow all instructions provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.follow all instructions provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.follow all instructions provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide with the following additional modifications:facilities & other resources. describe the educational environment, including the facilities, laboratories, participating departments, computer services, and any other resources to be used in the development and implementation of the proposed program. list all thematically related sources of support for research training and education following the format for current and pending support.other attachmentsan advisory committee is not a required component of a research education program. however, if an advisory committee is intended, provide a plan for the appointment of an advisory committee to monitor progress of the research education program. the composition, roles, responsibilities, and desired expertise of committee members, frequency of committee meetings, and other relevant information should be included. describe how the advisory committee will evaluate the overall effectiveness of the program. proposed advisory committee members should be named in the application only if they have been invited to participate at the time the application is submitted. renewal applications with advisory committees should include the names of all committee members during the past project period. name your file “advisory_committee.pdf”.the filename provided for each “other attachment” will be the name used for the bookmark in the electronic application in era commons.follow all instructions provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.biographical sketches for the pd/pi and faculty should include, as part of the personal statement, a description of technical expertise relevant to the proposed course content and of prior experience as an educator.follow all instructions provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide with the following additional modifications:follow all instructions provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed, with the following additional instructions:research strategyresearch strategy section must be used to upload the research education program plan, which must include the following components described below:proposed research education program. while the proposed research education program may complement ongoing research training and education occurring at the applicant institution, the proposed educational experiences must be distinct from those research training and research education programs currently receiving federal support. when research training programs are on-going in the same department, the applicant organization should clearly distinguish between the activities in the proposed research education program and the research training supported by the training program.the research education program plan is expected to:for renewal applications, the progress report is expected to describe:the description of the short course proposed for the next funding period is expected to highlight how the short course continues to offer education at the scientific cutting-edge as well as any changes in course objectives, curriculum, and/or activities that are planned to maintain the currency of the research education offered.program director/principal investigator. describe arrangements for administration of the program. provide evidence that the program director/principal investigator is actively engaged in research and/or teaching in an area related to the mission of nih, and can organize, administer, monitor, and evaluate the research education program. for programs proposing multiple pds/pis, describe the complementary and integrated expertise of the pds/pis, their leadership approach, and governance appropriate for the planned project.for this funding opportunity, provide evidence that the short course pd/pi has experience as a mentor and educator, and is actively engaged in research or other scholarly activity relevant to the goals of the proposed short course.program faculty. faculty should have research expertise and experience relevant to the proposed program and demonstrate a history of, or the potential for, their intended roles. describe the criteria and processes used to select and remove participating faculty. provide information about the track records of the participating faculty as educators and their current engagement in research or other scholarly activity related to the goals of the short course. describe how the program has or will build a diverse team of participating faculty including individuals from underrepresented backgrounds, women, and faculty at different career stages to enhance the excellence and diversity of the research educational environment (see not-od-20-031). programs that include faculty participation through a foreign component should be well-justified and should describe the benefit to the research program (e.g., unique expertise of the faculty member).program participants. applications must describe the intended participants, and the eligibility criteria and/or specific educational background characteristics that are essential for participation in the proposed research education program. identify the career levels for which the proposed program is planned. describe the number of anticipated participants in each offering of the course. provide details about the pool of expected participants including their qualifications, and the sources of this pool. describe plans for announcing the short course, and strategies for recruiting participants nationally and for recruitment of an applicant pool that is predominantly composed of u.s. citizens and permanent residents. describe application procedures, and criteria for selection of participants including information about plans to recruit and select participants whose research interests intersect with the mission of the nimh. describe planned methods for reviewing the participants' progress, and for identifying and addressing any problems.institutional environment and commitment. describe any additional aspects of the institutional environment and commitment not addressed under “facilities & other resources” or the required “institutional commitment letter of support,” described below. appropriate institutional commitment should include the provision of adequate staff, facilities, and educational resources that can contribute to the planned research education program. this section should not duplicate information provided elsewhere.if multiple institutions are participating in a single application, they should all be clearly involved in the planning, implementation, and assessment of the program, and should all provide appropriate documentation of institutional commitment.recruitment plan to enhance diversity. every facet of the united states scientific research enterprise—from basic laboratory research to clinical and translational research to policy formation–requires superior intellect, creativity and a wide range of skill sets and viewpoints. nih’s ability to help ensure that the nation remains a global leader in scientific discovery and innovation is dependent upon a pool of highly talented scientists from diverse backgrounds who will help to further nih's mission (see not-od-20-031).research shows that diverse teams working together and capitalizing on innovative ideas and distinct perspectives outperform homogenous teams. scientists and trainees from diverse backgrounds and life experiences bring different perspectives, creativity, and individual enterprise to address complex scientific problems. there are many benefits that flow from a diverse nih-supported scientific workforce, including fostering scientific innovation, enhancing global competitiveness, contributing to robust learning environments, improving the quality of the research, advancing the likelihood that underserved or health disparity populations participate in, and benefit from health research, and enhancing public trust.underrepresented populations in the u.s. biomedical, clinical, behavioral and social sciences research enterprisein spite of tremendous advancements in scientific research, information, educational and research opportunities are not equally available to all. nih encourages institutions to diversify their student and faculty populations to enhance the participation of individuals from groups that are underrepresented in the biomedical, clinical, behavioral and social sciences, such as:a. individuals from racial and ethnic groups that have been shown by the national science foundation to be underrepresented in health-related sciences on a national basis (see data at http://www.nsf.gov/statistics/showpub.cfm?topid=2&subid=27) and the report women, minorities, and persons with disabilities in science and engineering). the following racial and ethnic groups have been shown to be underrepresented in biomedical research: blacks or african americans, hispanics or latinos, american indians or alaska natives, native hawaiians and other pacific islanders. in addition, it is recognized that underrepresentation can vary from setting to setting; individuals from racial or ethnic groups that can be demonstrated convincingly to be underrepresented by the grantee institution should be encouraged to participate in this program. for more information on racial and ethnic categories and definitions, see the omb revisions to the standards for classification of federal data on race and ethnicity (https://www.govinfo.gov/content/pkg/fr-1997-10-30/html/97-28653.htm)b. individuals with disabilities, who are defined as those with a physical or mental impairment that substantially limits one or more major life activities, as described in the americans with disabilities act of 1990, as amended. see nsf data at https://www.nsf.gov/statistics/2017/nsf17310/static/data/tab7-5.pdfc. individuals from disadvantaged backgrounds, defined as those who meet two or more of the following criteria:students from low socioeconomic (ses) status backgrounds have been shown to obtain bachelor’s and advanced degrees at significantly lower rates than students from middle and high ses groups (see https://nces.ed.gov/programs/coe/indicator_tva.asp), and are subsequently less likely to be represented in biomedical research. for background see department of education data at, https://nces.ed.gov/; https://nces.ed.gov/programs/coe/indicator_tva.asp; https://www2.ed.gov/rschstat/research/pubs/advancing-diversity-inclusion.pdf.d. literature shows that women from the above backgrounds (categories a, b, and c) face particular challenges at the graduate level and beyond in scientific fields. (see, e.g., from the nih: a systems approach to increasing the diversity of biomedical research workforce https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/pmc5008902/).women have been shown to be underrepresented in doctorate-granting research institutions at senior faculty levels in most biomedical-relevant disciplines, and may also be underrepresented at other faculty levels in some scientific disciplines (see data from the national science foundation national center for science and engineering statistics: women, minorities, and persons with disabilities in science and engineering, special report available at https://www.nsf.gov/statistics/2017/nsf17310/, especially table 9-23, describing science, engineering, and health doctorate holders employed in universities and 4-year colleges, by broad occupation, sex, years since doctorate, and faculty rank).upon review of nsf data, and scientific discipline or field related data, nih encourages institutions to consider women for faculty-level, diversity-targeted programs to address faculty recruitment, appointment, retention or advancement.all applications must include a description of the recruitment plan to enhance diversity, including the strategies that will be used to enhance the recruitment of trainees from diverse backgrounds, e.g. those from groups described in the notice of nih's interest in diversity (not-od-20-031) and may wish to include data in support of past accomplishments.renewal applications must include a detailed account of experiences in recruiting individuals from underrepresented groups during the previous funding period. information must be included on successful and unsuccessful recruitment strategies including aggregate information on the distribution of:for those individuals who participated in the research education program, the report should include information about the duration of education and aggregate information on the number of individuals who finished the program in good standing. additional information on the required recruitment plan to enhance diversity is available at frequently asked questions: recruitment plan to enhance diversity (diversity faqs).applications lacking a recruitment plan to enhance diversity will not be reviewed.plan for instruction in the responsible conduct of research. all applications must include a plan to fulfill nih requirements for instruction in the responsible conduct of research (rcr). the plan must address the five, required instructional components outlined in the nih policy: 1) format - the required format of instruction, i.e., face-to-face lectures, coursework, and/or real-time discussion groups (a plan with only on-line instruction is not acceptable); 2) subject matter - the breadth of subject matter, e.g., conflict of interest, authorship, data management, human subjects and animal use, laboratory safety, research misconduct, research ethics; 3) faculty participation - the role of the program faculty in the instruction; 4) duration of instruction - the number of contact hours of instruction, taking into consideration the duration of the program; and 5) frequency of instruction – instruction must occur during each career stage and at least once every four years. see also not-od-22-055 and not-od-10-019. the plan should be appropriate and reasonable for the nature and duration of the proposed program. renewal (type 2) applications must, in addition, describe any changes in formal instruction over the past project period and plans to address any weaknesses in the current instruction plan. all participating faculty who served as course directors, speakers, lecturers, and/or discussion leaders during the past project period must be named in the application.applications lacking a plan for instruction in responsible conduct of research will not be reviewed.evaluation plan. applications must include a plan for evaluating the activities supported by the award. the application must specify baseline metrics (e.g., numbers, educational levels, and demographic characteristics of participants), as well as measures to gauge the short or long-term success of the research education award in achieving its objectives. wherever appropriate, applicants are encouraged to obtain feedback from participants to help identify weaknesses and to provide suggestions for improvements. applications lacking an evaluation plan will not be reviewed.dissemination plan. a specific plan must be provided to disseminate nationally any findings resulting from or materials developed under the auspices of the research education program, e.g., sharing course curricula and related materials via web postings, presentations at scientific meetings, workshops. applications lacking a dissemination plan will not be reviewed.letters of supporta letter of institutional commitment must be attached as part of letters of support (see section above: "institutional environment and commitment.")the application must include a signed letter on institutional letterhead from a president, provost, dean or key institutional leader that describes the activities and resources provided by the institution that will ensure the success of the planned research education program and its participants (not to exceed 10 pages). the letter should address and/or include a description of the following:it is expected that grantees eliminate barriers to participation and provide equal access to the opportunity to participate in nih-supported courses. the institutional support letter must also include a separate paragraph describing the institutional commitment to providing an environment free of discrimination and discriminatory practices, including harassment (not-od-19-056). this paragraph must describe the institutional commitment to the following areas:applications lacking the institutional support letter will be considered incomplete and will be administratively withdrawn.resource sharing plansindividuals are required to comply with the instructions for the resource sharing plans as provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.when relevant, applications are expected to include a software dissemination plan if support for development, maintenance, or enhancement of software is requested in the application.there is no prescribed single license for software produced. however, the software dissemination plan should address, as appropriate, the following goals:appendixonly limited appendix materials are allowed. follow the instructions for the appendix as described in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.phs human subjects and clinical trials informationwhen involving human subjects research, clinical research, and/or nih-defined clinical trials (and when applicable, clinical trials research experience) follow all instructions for the phs human subjects and clinical trials information form in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, with the following additional instructions:if you answered “yes” to the question “are human subjects involved?” on the r&r other project information form, you must include at least one human subjects study record using the study record: phs human subjects and clinical trials information form or delayed onset study record.study record: phs human subjects and clinical trials informationall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.delayed onset studynote: delayed onset does not apply to a study that can be described but will not start immediately (i.e., delayed start). all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.3. unique entity identifier and system for award management (sam)see part 1. section iii.1 for information regarding the requirement for obtaining a unique entity identifier and for completing and maintaining active registrations in system for award management (sam), nato commercial and government entity (ncage) code (if applicable), era commons, and grants.gov4. submission dates and timespart i. overview information contains information about key dates and times. applicants are encouraged to submit applications before the due date to ensure they have time to make any application corrections that might be necessary for successful submission. when a submission date falls on a weekend or federal holiday, the application deadline is automatically extended to the next business day.organizations must submit applications to grants.gov (the online portal to find and apply for grants across all federal agencies). applicants must then complete the submission process by tracking the status of the application in the era commons, nih’s electronic system for grants administration. nih and grants.gov systems check the application against many of the application instructions upon submission. errors must be corrected and a changed/corrected application must be submitted to grants.gov on or before the application due date and time. if a changed/corrected application is submitted after the deadline, the application will be considered late. applications that miss the due date and time are subjected to the nih policy on late application submission.applicants are responsible for viewing their application before the due date in the era commons to ensure accurate and successful submission.information on the submission process and a definition of on-time submission are provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.5. intergovernmental review (e.o. 12372)this initiative is not subject to intergovernmental review.6. funding restrictionsall nih awards are subject to the terms and conditions, cost principles, and other considerations described in the nih grants policy statement.pre-award costs are allowable only as described in the nih grants policy statement.7. other submission requirements and informationapplications must be submitted electronically following the instructions described in the sf424 (r&r) application guide. paper applications will not be accepted.applicants must complete all required registrations before the application due date. section iii. eligibility information contains information about registration.for assistance with your electronic application or for more information on the electronic submission process, visit how to apply – application guide. if you encounter a system issue beyond your control that threatens your ability to complete the submission process on-time, you must follow the dealing with system issues guidance. for assistance with application submission, contact the application submission contacts in section vii.important reminders:all pd(s)/pi(s) must include their era commons id in the credential field of the senior/key person profile form. failure to register in the commons and to include a valid pd/pi commons id in the credential field will prevent the successful submission of an electronic application to nih.the applicant organization must ensure that the unique entity identifier provided on the application is the same identifier used in the organization’s profile in the era commons and for the system for award management. additional information may be found in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.see more tips for avoiding common errors.upon receipt, applications will be evaluated for completeness and compliance with application instructions by the center for scientific review, nih. applications that are incomplete or non-compliant will not be reviewed.use of common data elements in nih-funded researchmany nih ics encourage the use of common data elements (cdes) in basic, clinical, and applied research, patient registries, and other human subject research to facilitate broader and more effective use of data and advance research across studies. cdes are data elements that have been identified and defined for use in multiple data sets across different studies. use of cdes can facilitate data sharing and standardization to improve data quality and enable data integration from multiple studies and sources, including electronic health records. nih ics have identified cdes for many clinical domains (e.g., neurological disease), types of studies (e.g. genome-wide association studies (gwas)), types of outcomes (e.g., patient-reported outcomes), and patient registries (e.g., the global rare diseases patient registry and data repository). nih has established a “common data element (cde) resource portal" (http://cde.nih.gov/) to assist investigators in identifying nih-supported cdes when developing protocols, case report forms, and other instruments for data collection. the portal provides guidance about and access to nih-supported cde initiatives and other tools and resources for the appropriate use of cdes and data standards in nih-funded research. investigators are encouraged to consult the portal and describe in their applications any use they will make of nih-supported cdes in their projects.nimh has released expectations for collecting common data elements when an application involves human research participants. details can be found at not-mh-20-067 and the nimh webpage on data sharing for applicants and awardees.1. criteriaonly the review criteria described below will be considered in the review process. applications submitted to the nih in support of the nih mission are evaluated for scientific and technical merit through the nih peer review system.for this particular announcement, note the following:the goal of this r25 program is to support educational activities that will provide education in state-of-the-art research skills important to fulfill the objectives of the current nimh strategic plan. applications should be characterized by innovation, scholarship, and documentation of a strong need in the research community for the proposed short course. renewal applications should also demonstrate a continuing need for the existing short course to advance nimh's goal of a well-trained pool of researchers with state-of-the-art knowledge and skills essential for achieving the institute's research priorities.reviewers will provide an overall impact score to reflect their assessment of the likelihood for the project to strongly advance research education by fulfilling the goal of this r25 education program, in consideration of the following review criteria and additional review criteria, as applicable for the project proposed.reviewers will consider each of the review criteria below in the determination of scientific merit and give a separate score for each. an application does not need to be strong in all categories to be judged likely to have major scientific impact.significancedoes the proposed program address a key audience and an important aspect or important need in research education? is there convincing evidence in the application that the proposed program will significantly advance the stated goal of the program?specific to this foa:to what extent will implementation of the proposed program provide education in state-of-the-art scientific research skills relevant to the nimh strategic plan?investigator(s)is the pd/pi capable of providing both administrative and scientific leadership to the development and implementation of the proposed program? is there evidence that an appropriate level of effort will be devoted by the program leadership to ensure the program's intended goal is accomplished? if applicable, is there evidence that the participating faculty have experience in mentoring students and teaching science? if applicable, are the faculty good role models for the participants by nature of their scientific accomplishments? if the project is collaborative or multi-pd/pi, do the investigators have complementary and integrated expertise; are their leadership approach, governance, and organizational structure appropriate for the project?specific to this foa:to what extent is the caliber of the faculty, in terms of their research interests, expertise, and teaching experience in the area of the proposed course, appropriate for their roles on the project?innovationtaking into consideration the nature of the proposed research education program, does the applicant make a strong case for this program effectively reaching an audience in need of the program’s offerings? where appropriate, is the proposed program developing or utilizing innovative approaches and latest best practices to improve the knowledge and/or skills of the intended audience?specific to this foa:to what extent is the proposed program distinct from existing research education, training and/or career development activities currently supported at the applicant institution or available elsewhere?approachdoes the proposed program clearly state its goals and objectives, including the educational level of the audience to be reached, the content to be conveyed, and the intended outcome? is there evidence that the program is based on a sound rationale, as well as sound educational concepts and principles? is the plan for evaluation sound and likely to provide information on the effectiveness of the program? if the proposed program will recruit participants, are the planned recruitment, retention, and follow-up (if applicable) activities adequate to ensure a highly qualified participant pool?specific to this foa:environmentwill the scientific and educational environment of the proposed program contribute to its intended goals? is there a plan to take advantage of this environment to enhance the educational value of the program? is there tangible evidence of institutional commitment? is there evidence that the faculty have sufficient institutional support to create a sound educational environment for the participants? where appropriate, is there evidence of collaboration and buy-in among participating programs, departments, and institutions?specific to this foa:if multiple sites are participating, how is this adequately justified in terms of the research education experiences provided? to what extent are adequate plans provided for coordination and communication between multiple sites (if appropriate)?as applicable for the project proposed, reviewers will evaluate the following additional items while determining scientific and technical merit, and in providing an overall impact score, but will not give separate scores for these items.protections for human subjectsfor research that involves human subjects but does not involve one of the categories of research that are exempt under 45 cfr part 46, the committee will evaluate the justification for involvement of human subjects and the proposed protections from research risk relating to their participation according to the following five review criteria: 1) risk to subjects, 2) adequacy of protection against risks, 3) potential benefits to the subjects and others, 4) importance of the knowledge to be gained, and 5) data and safety monitoring for clinical trials.for research that involves human subjects and meets the criteria for one or more of the categories of research that are exempt under 45 cfr part 46, the committee will evaluate: 1) the justification for the exemption, 2) human subjects involvement and characteristics, and 3) sources of materials. for additional information on review of the human subjects section, please refer to the guidelines for the review of human subjects.inclusion of women, minorities, and individuals across the lifespanwhen the proposed project involves human subjects and/or nih-defined clinical research, the committee will evaluate the proposed plans for the inclusion (or exclusion) of individuals on the basis of sex/gender, race, and ethnicity, as well as the inclusion (or exclusion) of individuals of all ages (including children and older adults) to determine if it is justified in terms of the scientific goals and research strategy proposed. for additional information on review of the inclusion section, please refer to the guidelines for the review of inclusion in clinical research.vertebrate animalsthe committee will evaluate the involvement of live vertebrate animals as part of the scientific assessment according to the following criteria: (1) description of proposed procedures involving animals, including species, strains, ages, sex, and total number to be used; (2) justifications for the use of animals versus alternative models and for the appropriateness of the species proposed; (3) interventions to minimize discomfort, distress, pain and injury; and (4) justification for euthanasia method if not consistent with the avma guidelines for the euthanasia of animals. reviewers will assess the use of chimpanzees as they would any other application proposing the use of vertebrate animals. for additional information on review of the vertebrate animals section, please refer to the worksheet for review of the vertebrate animal section.biohazardsreviewers will assess whether materials or procedures proposed are potentially hazardous to research personnel and/or the environment, and if needed, determine whether adequate protection is proposed.resubmissionsfor resubmissions, the committee will evaluate the application as now presented, taking into consideration the responses to comments from the previous scientific review group and changes made to the project.not applicablefor renewals, the committee will consider the progress made in the last funding period, and the success of the program in achieving its objectives.as applicable for the project proposed, reviewers will consider each of the following items, but will not give scores for these items, and should not consider them in providing an overall impact score.recruitment plan to enhance diversitypeer reviewers will separately evaluate the recruitment plan to enhance diversity after the overall score has been determined. reviewers will examine the strategies to be used in the recruitment of individuals from underrepresented groups. the review panel’s evaluation will be included in the summary statement. plans will be rated as acceptable or unacceptable, and the summary statement will provide the consensus of the review committee.training in the responsible conduct of researchtaking into account the specific characteristics of the proposed research education program, the level of participant experience, the reviewers will evaluate the adequacy of the proposed rcr training in relation to the following five required components: 1) format - the required format of instruction, i.e., face-to-face lectures, coursework, and/or real-time discussion groups (a plan with only on-line instruction is not acceptable); 2) subject matter - the breadth of subject matter, e.g., conflict of interest, authorship, data management, human subjects and animal use, laboratory safety, research misconduct, research ethics; 3) faculty participation - the role of the program faculty in the instruction; 4) duration of instruction - the number of contact hours of instruction, taking into consideration the duration of the program; and 5) frequency of instruction –instruction must occur during each career stage and at least once every four years. see also: not-od-10-019. the review panel’s evaluation will be included in the summary statement. plans will be rated as acceptable or unacceptable, and the summary statement will provide the consensus of the review committee.applications from foreign organizationsnot applicableselect agent researchgenerally not applicable. reviewers should bring any concerns to the attention of the scientific review officer.resource sharing plansreviewers will comment on whether the following resource sharing plans, or the rationale for not sharing the following types of resources, are reasonable: 1) sharing model organisms; and 2) genomic data sharing plan.if support for development, maintenance, or enhancement of software is requested in the application, the reviewers will comment on the proposed software dissemination plan.budget and period of supportreviewers will consider whether the budget and the requested period of support are fully justified and reasonable in relation to the proposed research.applications will be evaluated for scientific and technical merit by (an) appropriate scientific review group(s), convened by nimh in accordance with nih peer review policy and procedures, using the stated review criteria. assignment to a scientific review group will be shown in the era commons.as part of the scientific peer review, all applications will receive a written critique.applications will be assigned on the basis of established phs referral guidelines to the appropriate nih institute or center. applications will compete for available funds with all other recommended applications. following initial peer review, recommended applications will receive a second level of review by the national advisory mental health council.the following will be considered in making funding decisions:3. anticipated announcement and award datesafter the peer review of the application is completed, the pd/pi will be able to access his or her summary statement (written critique) via the era commons. refer to part 1 for dates for peer review, advisory council review, and earliest start date.information regarding the disposition of applications is available in the nih grants policy statement.1. award noticesif the application is under consideration for funding, nih will request "just-in-time" information from the applicant as described in the nih grants policy statement.a formal notification in the form of a notice of award (noa) will be provided to the applicant organization for successful applications. the noa signed by the grants management officer is the authorizing document and will be sent via email to the recipient’s business official.recipients must comply with any funding restrictions described in section iv.6. funding restrictions. selection of an application for award is not an authorization to begin performance. any costs incurred before receipt of the noa are at the recipient's risk. these costs may be reimbursed only to the extent considered allowable pre-award costs.any application awarded in response to this foa will be subject to terms and conditions found on the award conditions and information for nih grants website. this includes any recent legislation and policy applicable to awards that is highlighted on this website.institutional review board or independent ethics committee approval: recipient institutions must ensure that protocols are reviewed by their irb or iec. to help ensure the safety of participants enrolled in nih-funded studies, the recipient must provide nih copies of documents related to all major changes in the status of ongoing protocols.all nih grant and cooperative agreement awards include the nih grants policy statement as part of the noa. for these terms of award, see the nih grants policy statement part ii: terms and conditions of nih grant awards, subpart a: general and part ii: terms and conditions of nih grant awards, subpart b: terms and conditions for specific types of grants, recipients, and activities, including of note, but not limited to:if a recipient is successful and receives a notice of award, in accepting the award, the recipient agrees that any activities under the award are subject to all provisions currently in effect or implemented during the period of the award, other department regulations and policies in effect at the time of the award, and applicable statutory provisions.should the applicant organization successfully compete for an award, recipients of federal financial assistance (ffa) from hhs will be required to complete an hhs assurance of compliance form (hhs 690) in which the recipient agrees, as a term and condition of receiving the grant, to administer their programs in compliance with federal civil rights laws that prohibit discrimination on the basis of race, color, national origin, age, sex and disability, and agreeing to comply with federal conscience laws, where applicable. this includes ensuring that entities take meaningful steps to provide meaningful access to persons with limited english proficiency; and ensuring effective communication with persons with disabilities. where applicable, title xi and section 1557 prohibit discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation, and gender identity. the hhs office for civil rights provides guidance on complying with civil rights laws enforced by hhs. please see https://www.hhs.gov/civil-rights/for-providers/provider-obligations/index.html and https://www.hhs.gov/civil-rights/for-individuals/nondiscrimination/index.htmlhhs recognizes that research projects are often limited in scope for many reasons that are nondiscriminatory, such as the principal investigator’s scientific interest, funding limitations, recruitment requirements, and other considerations. thus, criteria in research protocols that target or exclude certain populations are warranted where nondiscriminatory justifications establish that such criteria are appropriate with respect to the health or safety of the subjects, the scientific study design, or the purpose of the research. for additional guidance regarding how the provisions apply to nih grant programs, please contact the scientific/research contact that is identified in section vii under agency contacts of this foa.please contact the hhs office for civil rights for more information about obligations and prohibitions under federal civil rights laws at https://www.hhs.gov/ocr/about-us/contact-us/index.html or call 1-800-368-1019 or tdd 1-800-537-7697.in accordance with the statutory provisions contained in section 872 of the duncan hunter national defense authorization act of fiscal year 2009 (public law 110-417), nih awards will be subject to the federal awardee performance and integrity information system (fapiis) requirements. fapiis requires federal award making officials to review and consider information about an applicant in the designated integrity and performance system (currently fapiis) prior to making an award. an applicant, at its option, may review information in the designated integrity and performance systems accessible through fapiis and comment on any information about itself that a federal agency previously entered and is currently in fapiis. the federal awarding agency will consider any comments by the applicant, in addition to other information in fapiis, in making a judgement about the applicant’s integrity, business ethics, and record of performance under federal awards when completing the review of risk posed by applicants as described in 45 cfr part 75.205 and 2 cfr part 200.206 “federal awarding agency review of risk posed by applicants.” this provision will apply to all nih grants and cooperative agreements except fellowships.3. reportingwhen multiple years are involved, recipients will be required to submit the research performance progress report (rppr) annually. continuation support will not be provided until the required forms are submitted and accepted.programs that involve participants should report on education in the responsible conduct of research and complete a trainee diversity report, in accordance with the rppr instruction guide.nih foas outline intended research goalsand objectives. post award, nih will review and measure performance based on the details and outcomes that are shared within the rppr, as described at 45 cfr part 75.301 and 2 cfr 200.301.the federal funding accountability and transparency act of 2006 (transparency act), includes a requirement for awardees of federal grants to report information about first-tier subawards and executive compensation under federal assistance awards issued in fy2011 or later. all recipients of applicable nih grants and cooperative agreements are required to report to the federal subaward reporting system (fsrs) available at www.fsrs.gov on all subawards over the threshold. see the nih grants policy statement for additional information on this reporting requirement.failure by the recipient institution to submit required forms in a timely, complete, and accurate manner may result in an expenditure disallowance or a delay in any continuation funding for the award.in accordance with the regulatory requirements 45 cfr part 75 and 2 cfr part 200 and appendix xii to 45 cfr part 75.113 and 2 cfr part 200.113, recipients that have currently active federal grants, cooperative agreements, and procurement contracts from all federal awarding agencies with a cumulative total value greater than $10,000,000 for any period of time during the period of performance of a federal award, must report and maintain the currency of information reported in the system for award management (sam) about civil, criminal, and administrative proceedings in connection with the award or performance of a federal award that reached final disposition within the most recent five-year period. the recipient must also make semiannual disclosures regarding such proceedings. proceedings information will be made publicly available in the designated integrity and performance system (currently fapiis). this is a statutory requirement under section 872 of public law 110-417, as amended (41 u.s.c. 2313). as required by section 3010 of public law 111-212, all information posted in the designated integrity and performance system on or after april 15, 2011, except past performance reviews required for federal procurement contracts, will be publicly available. full reporting requirements and procedures are found in appendix xii to 45 cfr part 75 and 2 cfr part 200 – award term and condition for recipient integrity and performance matters.a final rppr and the expenditure data portion of the federal financial report are required for closeout of an award as described in the nih grants policy statement.each rppr should include the following tabular information for each budget period of the current project period: participant name, most recent degree, year of participation in the short course, career stage (graduate/medical student, medical resident, postdoctoral scholar, early-career investigator), and home institution. also include the overall percent of participants that were u.s. citizens and permanent residents.a final rppr and the expenditure data portion of the federal financial report are required for closeout of an award as described in the nih grants policy statement.4. evaluationin carrying out its stewardship of human resource-related programs, the nih or its institutes and centers will periodically evaluate their r25 research education programs, employing the measures identified below. in assessing the effectiveness of its research education investments, nih may request information from databases, pd/pis, and from participants themselves. where necessary, pd/pis and participants may be contacted after the completion of a research education experience for periodic updates on participants’ subsequent educational or employment history and professional activities.upon the completion of a program evaluation, nih and its ics will determine whether to (a) continue a program as currently configured, (b) continue a program with modifications, or (c) discontinue a program.in evaluating this research education program nimh expects to use the following evaluation measures:for courses for skills development:we encourage inquiries concerning this funding opportunity and welcome the opportunity to answer questions from potential applicants.era service desk (questions regarding assist, era commons, application errors and warnings, documenting system problems that threaten submission by the due date, and post-submission issues)finding help online: http://http://grants.nih.gov/support/ (preferred method of contact) telephone: 301-402-7469 or 866-504-9552 (toll free)general grants information (questions regarding application instructions, application processes, and nih grant resources) email: grantsinfo@nih.gov (preferred method of contact) telephone: 301-945-7573grants.gov customer support (questions regarding grants.gov registration and workspace) contact center telephone: 800-518-4726 email: support@grants.govsba company registry (questions regarding required registration at the sba company registry and for technical questions or issues) website to email: http://sbir.gov/feedback?type=regsee http://www.nimh.nih.gov/funding/training/contacts-for-research-training-and-career-development-programs.shtml for scientific/research contacts at the nimh.nick gaiano, ph.d. national institute of mental health (nimh) telephone: 301-827-3420 email: nick.gaiano@nih.govheather weiss national institute of mental health (nimh) telephone: 301-443-4415 email: weissh@mail.nih.govrecently issued trans-nih policy notices may affect your application submission. a full list of policy notices published by nih is provided in the nih guide for grants and contracts. all awards are subject to the terms and conditions, cost principles, and other considerations described in the nih grants policy statement.awards are made under the authorization of sections 301 and 405 of the public health service act as amended (42 usc 241 and 284) and under federal regulations 42 cfr part 52 and 45 cfr part 75.weekly toc for this announcement nih funding opportunities and noticesnote: for help accessing pdf, rtf, ms word, excel, powerpoint, audio or video files, see help downloading files.