Limited Competition: Renewal of Centers of Biomedical Research Excellence (COBRE) (Phase 2) (P20 - Clinical Trial Optional)
https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/pa-files/PAR-23-063.html
national institutes of health (nih)national institute of general medical sciences (nigms)p20 exploratory grantsnot-od-22-189 -implementation details for the nih data management and sharing policynot-od-22-195 -new nih "forms-h" grant application forms and instructions coming for due dates on or after january 25, 2023not-od-22-198 implementation changes for genomic data sharing plans included with applications due on or after january 25, 2023not-od-23-012 reminder: forms-h grant application forms & instructions must be used for due dates on or after january 25, 2023 - new grant application instructions now availablesee section iii. 3. additional information on eligibility.the centers of biomedical research excellence (cobre) program supports the establishment and development of innovative biomedical research centers at institutional development award (idea)-eligible institutions through awards for three sequential five-year phases. the purpose of the cobre phase 2 award is to strengthen successful cobre phase 1 centers through continued development of investigators to compete effectively for independent research funding and further improvements to research infrastructure at the institution.not applicableall applications are due by 5:00 pm local time of applicant organization.applicants are encouraged to apply early to allow adequate time to make any corrections to errors found in the application during the submission process by the due date.not applicableit is critical that applicants follow the multi-project (m) instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, except where instructed to do otherwise (in this foa or in a notice from the nih guide for grants and contracts). conformance to all requirements (both in the application guide and the foa) is required and strictly enforced. applicants must read and follow all application instructions in the application guide as well as any program-specific instructions noted in section iv. when the program-specific instructions deviate from those in the application guide, follow the program-specific instructions. applications that do not comply with these instructions may be delayed or not accepted for review.there are several options available to submit your application through grants.gov to nih and department of health and human services partners. you must use one of these submission options to access the application forms for this opportunity.authorized by the u.s. congress in 1993, the national institutes of health (nih) established the institutional development award (idea) program to build biomedical research capacity in the 23 u.s. states and puerto rico that had historically low nih grant funding success rates. idea funding programs collectively support biomedical research in basic, clinical, behavioral, and translational science in idea-eligible states by developing faculty investigators, providing research opportunities to students, and enhancing research infrastructure.a key idea component is the centers of biomedical research excellence (cobre) program that supports the establishment and development of innovative biomedical research centers of excellence through awards for three sequential five-year phases. a phase 1 award aims to enhance an institution's capacity in one area of biomedical research by developing a critical mass of investigators who can compete effectively for independent funding in the scientific area supported by the center and improving research infrastructure. the cobre phase 2 awards are intended to strengthen successful phase 1 centers through continued development of investigators and further improvements to research infrastructure. by the end of the phase 2 award period, it is expected that there will be a critical mass of investigators in the cobre research area at the institution who are able to compete successfully for independent research funding. phase 3 awards provide resources to transition cobres to self-sustaining research programs.cobre phase 2 program description and requirementsto submit a phase 2 application in response to this foa, the applicant institution must have an active cobre phase 1 award and have established the necessary infrastructure to support research in the area of the center. it is essential for a phase 2 application to demonstrate how phase 1 support has enabled research project leaders to successfully publish their research work and compete for independent research grant funding, and how research cores established during phase 1 have enabled scientific development at the center, in order to justify another five years of support for continued capacity building in the research area of the center at the institution. applications should also propose strategies to increase the user base of research cores in anticipation of the need for cores to become self-sustaining when cobre funding ends.overall plan (required): a cobre phase 2 award supports the strengthening of a successful multi-component phase 1 center of excellence in an area of biomedical research that aligns with the applicant institution’s strategic priorities for growing its research capacity. the cobre phase 2 program seeks to continue the development of a critical mass of investigators who can compete effectively for independent, external research funding. the phase 2 award will provide research support and mentoring to faculty investigators as well as enhancements of the institution’s research infrastructure to facilitate research in the center’s scientific area. applicant institutions should demonstrate their continued commitment to the cobre program goals by investing in the recruitment and support of the center’s investigators and the long-term sustainability of the research infrastructure. an established investigator with scientific expertise in the research area of the center as well as mentoring and administrative experience is expected to lead the center as the program director/principal investigator (pd/pi) of the award. an advisory committee (ac) comprised of institutional leadership and external experts in the scientific area is required to provide advice on scientific administrative matters critical to the success of the center.required components of a phase 2 center include an administrative core and 2-5 scientifically independent research projects. research cores required for the proposed research may also be included. all proposed components must be integral to the goals of the center and are expected to interact with each other and with relevant existing programs at the institution to foster a collaborative research environment.administrative core (required): the administrative core implements the center’s overall plan, coordinates the research projects, cores, ac, and mentoring activities, and carries out all responsibilities required of the cobre award. these include:the administrative core also administers a required pilot projects program (ppp) to support faculty investigators to test hypotheses and develop ideas that may strengthen and expand the center’s research area.research projects (required): a minimum of two and a maximum of five research projects related to the center’s research area must be proposed. the research projects in phase 2 should solidify the center’s strength in its scientific area through studying topics related to, but different from those funded in phase 1. each research project should propose innovative science that has the potential to advance the field and jumpstart the research program of its research project leader (rpl). rpls must qualify either as nih early stage investigator (esi) or as a new investigator (ni), must hold faculty appointments (or equivalent at research institutes), and lead their own research programs (see section iii. eligibility information for additional details). a senior faculty member is assigned to each rpl as a mentor to guide the rpl's research and professional development. each research project is expected to be supported for 2-3 years. the research proposed should be appropriate for the rpl’s research team to complete within this time frame. rpl graduation from cobre support with research publications and independent research grant funding is a key measure of a center’s success. upon graduation of an rpl, a replacement rpl should be selected to fill the vacancy. applications proposing esis in the rpl role are strongly encouraged.research core(s) (optional): a phase 2 center may support enhancements to a research core(s) established in phase 1. new research core(s) may be proposed provided they are essential to support proposed research and do not duplicate existing services or facilities at the applicant institution. consolidation of existing cores for technology advancement and/or administrative efficiency and the sharing of research facilities supported by other idea programs (e.g., inbre, idea-ctr, and other cobres) is strongly encouraged.nih/nigms plan for enhancing diverse perspectives (pedp) (required): nigms recognizes that diverse teams working together and capitalizing on innovative ideas and distinct perspectives outperform homogeneous teams. there are many benefits that flow from a diverse scientific workforce, including: fostering scientific innovation, enhancing global competitiveness, contributing to robust learning environments, improving the quality of the research, advancing the likelihood that underserved populations participate in, and benefit from research, and enhancing public trust.to support the best science, nigms encourages inclusivity in research. examples of structures that promote diverse perspectives include but are not limited to:in the required attachment (see section iv) to address the nih/nigms pedp, the examples listed above may be followed should they be appropriate for the goals, structures, and requirements specific to the cobre program.see section viii. other information for award authorities and regulations.investigators proposing nih-defined clinical trials may refer to the research methods resources website for information about developing statistical methods and study designs.grant: a support mechanism providing money, property, or both to an eligible entity to carry out an approved project or activity.optional: accepting applications that either propose or do not propose clinical trial(s).the number of awards is contingent upon nih appropriations and the submission of a sufficient number of meritorious applications.application budgets must not exceed $1.5 million in annual direct costs, excluding consortium facilities and administrative (f&a) costs.the project period is limited to five years.nih grants policies as described in the nih grants policy statement will apply to the applications submitted and awards made from this foa.1. eligible applicantsonly cobre phase 1 centers supported by an active award, including those in a no-cost-extension, are eligible to apply.non-domestic (non-u.s.) entities (foreign institutions) are not eligible to apply.non-domestic (non-u.s.) components of u.s. organizations are not eligible to apply.foreign components, as defined in the nih grants policy statement, are not allowed.applicant organizationsapplicant organizations must complete and maintain the following registrations as described in the sf 424 (r&r) application guide to be eligible to apply for or receive an award. all registrations must be completed prior to the application being submitted. registration can take 6 weeks or more, so applicants should begin the registration process as soon as possible. the nih policy on late submission of grant applications states that failure to complete registrations in advance of a due date is not a valid reason for a late submission.program directors/principal investigators (pd(s)/pi(s))all pd(s)/pi(s) must have an era commons account. pd(s)/pi(s) should work with their organizational officials to either create a new account or to affiliate their existing account with the applicant organization in era commons. if the pd/pi is also the organizational signing official, they must have two distinct era commons accounts, one for each role. obtaining an era commons account can take up to 2 weeks.any individual(s) with the skills, knowledge, and resources necessary to carry out the proposed research as the program director(s)/principal investigator(s) (pd(s)/pi(s)) is invited to work with his/her organization to develop an application for support. individuals from diverse backgrounds, including underrepresented racial and ethnic groups, individuals with disabilities, and women are always encouraged to apply for nih support. see, reminder: notice of nih's encouragement of applications supporting individuals from underrepresented ethnic and racial groups as well as individuals with disabilities, not-od-22-019.for institutions/organizations proposing multiple pds/pis, visit the multiple program director/principal investigator policy and submission details in the senior/key person profile (expanded) component of the sf424 (r&r) application guide.the pd(s)/pi(s) is expected to be an established biomedical research scientist with the mentoring and administrative experience necessary to lead the center. the pd(s)/pi(s) may be the pd(s)/pi(s) of the cobre phase 1 award or be a replacement pd(s)/pi(s) appointed by the institution.at the time of submission, the cobre pd/pi’s primary appointment must be at the applicant institution. the pd/pi must also hold, as pd/pi, at least one active, peer-reviewed, and externally funded research grant in the scientific area of the cobre that is awarded to the applicant institution. if a cobre pd/pi’s qualifying research grant is a multiple pd/pi award to a different institution, the applicant institution must receive funds via a subcontract supporting the cobre pd/pi's research.for multiple pd/pi cobre applications, all non-contact pd(s)/pi(s) must also have at least one active, peer-reviewed, and externally funded research grant in the scientific area of the cobre that is awarded to the institution where they hold a primary appointment.a pd/pi may not simultaneously lead more than one idea (inbre, idea-ctr, or other cobre) program award. previous cobre pd(s)/pi(s) of different cobre centers, except those who served in that capacity on an interim basis, are not eligible to lead a cobre phase 2 application. all investigators who intend to apply as pd(s)/pi(s) are encouraged to consult with the scientific/research contact listed in section vii prior to preparing an application.eligible individuals (research project leaders)rpls must qualify as either nih early stage investigators (esis) or as new investigators (nis). they must also hold independent multi-year faculty appointments (or equivalent at research institutes) and be leading their own research programs. more than half the rpls must hold primary appointments at the applicant institution. an rpl with a primary appointment at another idea institution may be proposed, provided that institution, through subcontracts, holds four or fewer cobre research projects and/or cores from active phase 1 and phase 2 cobres awarded to other institutions; note that subcontracts for research cores from phase 3 cobres are not included in this calculation. an investigator cannot receive more than five years of support as a cobre rpl in total, inclusive of any rpl support from another cobre award. a cobre rpl cannot receive simultaneous research support as a cobre pilot project leader (ppl). furthermore, a cobre rpl or ppl cannot receive simultaneous research support as a project lead from any other idea parent award (e.g., cobre, inbre, idea-ctr), but may be eligible to serve as a project lead of a supplement to an idea award.2. cost sharingthis foa does not require cost sharing as defined in the nih grants policy statement.3. additional information on eligibilitynumber of applicationsapplicant organizations may submit more than one application, provided that each application is scientifically distinct.the nih will not accept duplicate or highly overlapping applications under review at the same time, per 2.3.7.4 submission of resubmission application. this means that the nih will not accept:1. requesting an application packagethe application forms package specific to this opportunity must be accessed through assist or an institutional system-to-system solution. a button to apply using assist is available in part 1 of this foa. see your administrative office for instructions if you plan to use an institutional system-to-system solution.2. content and form of application submissionit is critical that applicants follow the multi-project (m) instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, except where instructed in this funding opportunity announcement to do otherwise and where instructions in the application guide are directly related to the grants.gov downloadable forms currently used with most nih opportunities. conformance to the requirements in the application guide is required and strictly enforced. applications that are out of compliance with these instructions may be delayed or not accepted for review.page limitationsall page limitations described in the sf424 application guide and the table of page limits must be followed.the following section supplements the instructions found in the sf424 (r&r) application guide and should be used for preparing an application to this foa.note: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023, the data management and sharing plan will be attached in the other plan(s) attachment in forms-h application forms packages.overall componentwhen preparing your application, use component type ‘overall’.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed, with the following additional instructions, as noted.sf424(r&r) cover (overall)complete entire form.phs 398 cover page supplement (overall)note: human embryonic stem cell lines from other components should be repeated in cell line table in overall component.research & related other project information (overall)follow standard instructions.other attachments: the application must include the following attachment.plan for enhancing diverse perspectives (pedp) (1-page maximum): all applications must include a summary of strategies to advance the scientific and technical merit of the proposed project through expanded inclusivity. the pedp should provide a holistic and integrated view of how enhancing diverse perspectives is viewed and supported throughout the application and can incorporate elements with relevance to any review criteria (significance, investigator(s), innovation, approach, and environment) as appropriate. where possible, applicant(s) should align their description with these required elements within the research strategy section. the pedp will vary depending on the scientific aims, expertise required, the environment and performance site(s), as well as how the project aims are structured. the pedp should include a timeline and milestones for relevant components that will be considered as part of the review. examples of items that advance inclusivity in research and may be part of the pedp can include, but are not limited to:the examples listed above may be followed should they be appropriate for the goals, structures, and requirements specific to the cobre program.please name the attachment "plan for enhancing diverse perspectives (pedp)".project/performance site locations (overall)enter primary site only.a summary of project/performance sites in the overall section of the assembled application image in era commons compiled from data collected in the other components will be generated upon submission.research and related senior/key person profile (overall)include only the project director/principal investigator (pd/pi) and any multi-pds/pis (if applicable to this foa) for the entire application.biographical sketch: each pd/pi should include a description of their mentoring and administrative experience in the personal statement of the biographical sketch.current and pending support attachment: include an attachment titled “current and pending support” with the following information for each pd/pi’s current and pending research grants, from both federal and non-federal sources, which is critical information for determining the pd/pi's eligibility and suitability to lead the center:a summary of senior/key persons followed by their biographical sketches in the overall section of the assembled application image in era commons will be generated upon submission.budget (overall)the only budget information included in the overall component is the estimated project funding section of the sf424 (r&r) cover.a budget summary in the overall section of the assembled application image in era commons compiled from detailed budget data collected in the other components will be generated upon submission.phs 398 research plan (overall)introduction to application: for resubmission applications, an introduction to application is required in the overall component.specific aims: provide specific aims for the center.research strategy: this section must include the following elements:a. program accomplishmentsthe purpose of this foa is to allow institutions holding successful cobre phase 1 grants to compete for continuation of support to advance the center to phase 2. applicants must provide evidence that prior support has enabled the center to achieve specific benchmarks in phase 1 in the following areas (use tabular format where appropriate):b. organization and management planthe organization and management plan for the center should clearly convey a strategy for a successful phase 2 center that builds upon the phase 1 efforts. this should include effective use of the available funding, configuration of the center and its cores, and approaches for selecting research projects and supporting investigators. important elements to include are:c. plan for an advisory committeean advisory committee (ac) composed of three external, nationally recognized scientists with expertise directly relevant to the scientific area of the center, one senior institutional official (e.g., dean, vice-president for research), and one senior faculty member appointed by the senior institutional official must be assembled to advise the pd(s)/pi(s). ac members who previously served as external advisors during phase 1 may be appointed as phase 2 ac members. an ac member may not serve as an rpl mentor, core director/advisor, or hold any other position in the center.responsibilities of the ac include but are not limited to, reviewing the annual center evaluation provided by its administrative core, making recommendations to the pd(s)/pi(s) to improve the center's performance, and providing feedback to rpls, their mentors, and the pd(s)/pi(s) regarding the rpls' progress in research and career development.if an rpl is delayed in meeting milestones, the ac should provide advice to the pd(s)/pi(s) on ways to address concerns. the ac also assesses proposals for replacement research projects and pilot projects when the need arises. the pd(s)/pi(s) must include the ac’s recommendations when requesting nigms’s approval to appoint replacement rpls and new ppls. the ac should meet at least twice per year.plans for the ac should detail:d. mentoring planthe center is required to assign a mentor to each rpl. the mentor should be an established investigator who is able to provide scientific advice and career guidance to the rpl. if a suitable mentor at the applicant institution is not available, it is acceptable to enlist an appropriate mentor from another institution, including those located in non-idea states. the mentoring plan should:letters of support: a letter of support from a senior institutional official (e.g., president or dean) must be included, outlining the institution’s strategic plan and how the cobre aligns with the institution’s strategic priorities. the letter must also provide:if the application proposes subcontracts to another institution for rpls and/or research cores, a letter of support with similar content from a senior official of the participating institution must be provided.applications that do not include this letter of institutional support will be considered incomplete and the application will be withdrawn without review.additional letters demonstrating state-level, regional, and/or local support for the center may be included in this section only if they address a substantive and specific need.other plan(s):note: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023, the data management and sharing plan will be attached in the other plan(s) attachment in forms-h application forms packages.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed, with the following additional instructions:appendix:only limited items are allowed in the appendix. follow all instructions for the appendix as described in the sf424 (r&r) application guide; any instructions provided here are in addition to the sf424 (r&r) application guide instructions.phs human subjects and clinical trials information (overall)when involving human subjects research, clinical research, and/or nih-defined clinical trials follow all instructions for the phs human subjects and clinical trials information form in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, with the following additional instructions:if you answered “yes” to the question “are human subjects involved?” on the r&r other project information form, there must be at least one human subjects study record using the study record: phs human subjects and clinical trials information form or a delayed onset study record within the application. the study record(s) must be included in the component(s) where the work is being done, unless the same study spans multiple components. to avoid the creation of duplicate study records, a single study record with sufficient information for all involved components must be included in the overall component when the same study spans multiple components.study record: phs human subjects and clinical trials informationall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.delayed onset studynote: delayed onset does not apply to a study that can be described but will not start immediately (i.e., delayed start).all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.phs assignment request form (overall)all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.administrative corewhen preparing your application, use component type ‘admin core.’all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed, with the following additional instructions, as noted.sf424 (r&r) cover (administrative core)complete only the following fields:phs 398 cover page supplement (administrative core)enter human embryonic stem cells in each relevant component.research & related other project information (administrative core)human subjects: answer only the ‘are human subjects involved?’ and 'is the project exempt from federal regulations?’ questions.vertebrate animals: answer only the ‘are vertebrate animals used?’ question.project narrative: do not complete. note: assist screens will show an asterisk for this attachment indicating it is required. however, era systems only enforce this requirement in the overall component and applications will not receive an error if omitted in other components.project /performance site location(s) (administrative core)list all performance sites that apply to the specific component.note: the project performance site form allows up to 300 sites, prior to using additional attachment for additional entries.research & related senior/key person profile (administrative core)budget (administrative core)budget forms appropriate for the specific component will be included in the application package.a minimum level of effort (loe) of three person-months is required of each pd/pi to devote to career guidance and administrative oversight of the center. a maximum of six person-months of annual salary support may be requested collectively for all pds/pis. a pd/pi may not use cobre funds to supplement research activities for their laboratory or research team and is not eligible for research project support from this cobre or any other cobre, inbre, or idea-ctr award.pedp implementation costs: budget request may include allowable costs associated with pedp implementation, as outlined in the grants policy statement.funds to compensate external members of the ac as consultants via a fee-for-service arrangement should be requested in the administrative core budget. internal ac members may not receive compensation from the cobre.funds to compensate mentors for up to one person-month of effort should be requested in the administrative core budget and not in the budget sections of individual research projects. mentors from non-idea states can be compensated as consultants or via a fee-for-service arrangement.direct costs of up to $400,000 annually may be requested to support the required pilot projects program. each individual pilot project may have a duration of up to one year with a maximum budget of $100,000 in direct costs. an investigator may receive support for no more than two one-year pilot projects during phase 2. the budget should only include a placeholder for the pilot project program as prior approval is required before a pilot project can begin; see section vi. post-award program requirements.funds may be used to assist the institution's recruitment of additional faculty who strengthen the proposed program. these funds are limited to $400,000 in annual direct costs and may be used to recruit investigators at any career stage in the center's research area. these funds may be used for salary, supplies, and/or equipment costs.funds may be used to develop or enhance appropriate community-engaged research, including efforts to develop a coalition of community and academic stakeholders who can provide input on evaluation strategies and dissemination of the results.funds cannot be used by or for collaborators at institutions in non-idea states or at foreign sites. however, funds may be used in other idea and non-idea states and foreign sites for fee-for-service activities, such as learning new techniques, sample and data analysis, attending workshops, or obtaining scientific advising/consulting/mentoring (as described above).the pd(s)/pi(s) of the centers funded through this foa are expected to attend the national idea symposium of biomedical research excellence (nisbre) biennial meeting.note: the r&r budget form included in many of the component types allows for up to 100 senior/key persons in section a and 100 equipment items in section c prior to using attachments for additional entries. all other sf424 (r&r) instructions apply.phs 398 research plan (administrative core)introduction to application: for resubmission applications, an introduction to application is allowed for each component.specific aims: the sf424 application guide must be followed.research strategy: the important elements for this section include the following:research plans for individual pilot projects should not be included in the application.letters of support: not allowed. institutional letters of support, including support for the administrative core, should be included in the overall component.resource sharing plan: individuals are required to comply with the instructions for the resource sharing plans as provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.appendix: only limited items are allowed in the appendix. follow all instructions for the appendix as described in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.phs human subjects and clinical trials information (administrative core)when involving human subjects research, clinical research, and/or nih-defined clinical trials follow all instructions for the phs human subjects and clinical trials information form in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, with the following additional instructions:if you answered “yes” to the question “are human subjects involved?” on the r&r other project information form, you must include at least one human subjects study record using the study record: phs human subjects and clinical trials information form or a delayed onset study record.study record: phs human subjects and clinical trials informationdo not complete. human subjects research is not allowed in the administrative core.delayed onset studynote: delayed onset does not apply to a study that can be described but will not start immediately (i.e., delayed start). all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.research corewhen preparing your application, use component type ‘core’.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed, with the following additional instructions, as noted.sf424 (r&r) cover (research core)complete only the following fields:phs 398 cover page supplement (research core)enter human embryonic stem cells in each relevant component.research & related other project information (research core)human subjects: answer only the ‘are human subjects involved?’ and 'is the project exempt from federal regulations?’ questions.vertebrate animals: answer only the ‘are vertebrate animals used?’ question.project narrative: do not complete. note: assist screens will show an asterisk for this attachment indicating it is required. however, era systems only enforce this requirement in the overall component and applications will not receive an error if omitted in other components.project /performance site location(s) (research core)list all performance sites that apply to the specific component.note: the project performance site form allows up to 300 sites, prior to using additional attachment for additional entries.research & related senior/key person profile (research core)director(s) of a research core facility must be experienced personnel with the requisite stature, knowledge, authority, leadership, administrative skills and capabilities to direct the resource. the core director will lead a team that provides services to: (1) develop or improve plans for standard operating procedures governing the utilization and management of core expertise and resources; (2) develop or improve plans for disseminating information, training, and serving as subject matter experts to investigators; (3) maintain state-of-the-art technologies and knowledge capabilities; and (4) recommend to the cobre pd(s)/pi(s) any updates and/or replacement of equipment.budget (research core)budget forms appropriate for the specific component will be included in the application package.funds may be requested to establish research core facilities and/or to use, modify, or expand existing resources that are necessary for accomplishing the scientific goals of the center. in addition to personnel and supply costs, the acquisition of new equipment and modernization of instrumentation may be proposed. alteration and renovation (a&r) of core facilities cannot be proposed, nor can funds be used to support a&r.core facilities should have a detailed budget for the entire proposed project period (five years).note: the r&r budget form included in many of the component types allows for up to 100 senior/key persons in section a and 100 equipment items in section c prior to using attachments for additional entries. all other sf424 (r&r) instructions apply.phs 398 research plan (research core)introduction to application: for resubmission applications, an introduction to application is allowed (but not required) in the research core component.specific aims: the sf424 application guide must be followed.research strategy: the important elements to include in this section are:a research core should be made available to other investigators at the institution as well as those from other idea-state institutions. cores that duplicate services already available at the applicant institution are not allowed. utilization, modification, or expansion of existing core resources supported by institutional funds or other idea programs to accomplish the goals of proposed cobre research is strongly encouraged.letters of support: a letter from an institutional leader demonstrating commitment to support and maintain the proposed facilities can be included but should not duplicate letters included elsewhere in the application. letters from leaders of any established cores that will be leveraged for the cobre research should also be included.resource sharing plan: individuals are required to comply with the instructions for the resource sharing plans as provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.appendix: only limited items are allowed in the appendix. follow all instructions for the appendix as described in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.phs human subjects and clinical trials information (research core)when involving human subjects research, clinical research, and/or nih-defined clinical trials follow all instructions for the phs human subjects and clinical trials information form in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, with the following additional instructions:if you answered “yes” to the question “are human subjects involved?” on the r&r other project information form, you must include at least one human subjects study record using the study record: phs human subjects and clinical trials information form or a delayed onset study record. if a human subjects protocol(s) is used in a single project or core of the center, the study record(s) must be included in the component where the human subjects research is being performed. to avoid the creation of duplicate study records, a single study record with sufficient information for all involved components must be included in the overall component when the same study spans multiple components.study record: phs human subjects and clinical trials informationall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.delayed onset studynote: delayed onset does not apply to a study that can be described but will not start immediately (i.e., delayed start). all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.research projectwhen preparing your application, use component type ‘project’all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed, with the following additional instructions, as noted.sf424 (r&r) cover (research project)complete only the following fields:phs 398 cover page supplement (research project)enter human embryonic stem cells in each relevant component.research & related other project information (research project)human subjects: answer only the ‘are human subjects involved?’ and 'is the project exempt from federal regulations?’ questions.vertebrate animals: answer only the ‘are vertebrate animals used?’ question.project narrative: do not complete. note: assist screens will show an asterisk for this attachment indicating it is required. however, era systems only enforce this requirement in the overall component and applications will not receive an error if omitted in other components.project /performance site location(s) (research project)list all performance sites that apply to the specific component.note: the project performance site form allows up to 300 sites, prior to using additional attachment for additional entries.research & related senior/key person profile (research project)additional instructions:rpl eligibility: at the time of submission, an rpl must qualify either as an nih early stage investigator (esi) or as a new investigator (ni), hold a multi-year faculty appointment (or equivalent at research institutes), and be leading their own independent research program. see section iii. eligibility information for details.budget (research project)budget forms appropriate for the specific component will be included in the application package.applicants should propose a five-year budget for each research project. the proposed five-year budget should include up to 3 years total support for each rpl with future years designated for replacement rpls.rpls must make a minimum level of effort commitment of six person-months annually.salary support for postdoctoral research associates, graduate and undergraduate research assistants, and other research assistants may be requested with justification for the needs of the research project.note: the r&r budget form included in many of the component types allows for up to 100 senior/key persons in section a and 100 equipment items in section c prior to using attachments for additional entries. all other sf424 (r&r) instructions apply.phs 398 research plan (research project)introduction to application: for resubmission applications, an introduction to application is allowed (but not required) for each component.specific aims: the sf424 application guide must be followed.research strategy: the research strategy should describe how the proposed center and the research project (rp) will advance the independent career of the rpl, rather than provide a detailed experimental plan for the rp. the rpl should describe how the cobre support will impact long-term goals for their research program and how the center will help advance the rpl's career goals. the roles of research cores in helping the rpl to accomplish the project's specific aims should be described. the rpl should describe how the mentoring provided by the center will be used and how it will benefit their career goals.the research strategy should delineate the scientific questions to be answered and/or the design principles of the project but does not need to provide extensive experimental details, as it is expected these will be developed and evolve over time with appropriate mentorship provided by the center. the research strategy should include a critical assessment of existing knowledge and approaches relevant to the project and provide possible strategies to address the key goals/questions proposed, while emphasizing how the anticipated outcomes of the rp will advance the field and concisely stating the importance of the proposed research. the research proposed should be appropriate for the rpl’s research team to complete within the time frame of 2-3 years. projects that carefully address a small but significant part of a bigger question are encouraged. these projects are expected to develop and evolve, benefiting from mentorship provided by the center. preliminary data are not required but, if present, will be evaluated. an rpl continuing from phase 1 is expected to describe progress commensurate with the duration of the phase 1 funding.if the rp involves human subjects and/or nih-defined clinical trials, strong justification for the project’s scientific goals and research strategy proposed must be provided; justification for the inclusion or exclusion of individuals on the basis of sex/gender, race, ethnicity, and age in patient enrollment, when applicable, must be provided, and plans to ensure protection of human subjects from research risks and patient data safety must be included. given the relatively short award duration of 2-3 years for an rp, it is acceptable that the project propose a smaller scale clinical trial to collect preliminary data for a future, larger scale clinical trials. justification should be provided on how the rp will contribute to these future studies. an rp may address one or more aspects or steps of a clinical trial instead of a complete trial. similarly, an rpl may also lead part of a trial directed by other investigator(s) as their rp; in such cases, a letter from the lead investigator should be provided. furthermore, for rps involving human subjects and/or nih-defined clinical trials, a mentor with extensive experience in clinical research must be assigned to the rpl.if the rp involves community-engaged research, the rpl should describe plans to engage appropriate community and academic stakeholders to provide input.letters of support: each rpl must provide a letter of institutional support from an institutional leader such as a department head, dean, or provost from the rpl's home institution. the letter must demonstrate a clear commitment to support a multi-year faculty-level appointment for the proposed rpl independent of the outcome of the cobre grant application. examples of strong institutional commitment include a start-up package provided by the institution, salary support, and/or independent research space within the institution. applications that do not include a letter of institutional support for each rpl will be considered incomplete and the application will be withdrawn without review.additional letters demonstrating support to the proposed research project and/or the rpl may be included in this section if they do not duplicate letters included elsewhere in the application.resource sharing plan: applicants are required to comply with the instructions for the resource sharing plans as provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.appendix: only limited items are allowed in the appendix. follow all instructions for the appendix as described in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.phs human subjects and clinical trials information (research project)if you answered “yes” to the question “are human subjects involved?” on the r&r other project information form, you must include at least one human subjects study record using the study record: phs human subjects and clinical trials information form or a delayed onset study record. if a human subjects protocol(s) is used in a single research project or core of the center, the study record(s) must be included in the component where the human subjects research is being performed. to avoid the creation of duplicate study records, a single study record with sufficient information for all involved components must be included in the overall component when the same study spans multiple components.study record: phs human subjects and clinical trials informationall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.delayed onset studynote: delayed onset does not apply to a study that can be described but will not start immediately (i.e., delayed start). all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.3. unique entity identifier and system for award management (sam)see part 1. section iii.1 for information regarding the requirement for obtaining a unique entity identifier and for completing and maintaining active registrations in system for award management (sam), nato commercial and government entity (ncage) code (if applicable), era commons, and grants.gov4. submission dates and timespart i. overview information contains information about key dates and times. applicants are encouraged to submit applications before the due date to ensure they have time to make any application corrections that might be necessary for successful submission. when a submission date falls on a weekend or federal holiday, the application deadline is automatically extended to the next business day.organizations must submit applications to grants.gov (the online portal to find and apply for grants across all federal agencies) using assist or other electronic submission systems. applicants must then complete the submission process by tracking the status of the application in the era commons, nih’s electronic system for grants administration. nih and grants.gov systems check the application against many of the application instructions upon submission. errors must be corrected and a changed/corrected application must be submitted to grants.gov on or before the application due date and time. if a changed/corrected application is submitted after the deadline, the application will be considered late. applications that miss the due date and time are subjected to the nih policy on late application submission.applicants are responsible for viewing their application before the due date in the era commons to ensure accurate and successful submission.information on the submission process and a definition of on-time submission are provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.5. intergovernmental review (e.o. 12372)this initiative is not subject to intergovernmental review.6. funding restrictionsall nih awards are subject to the terms and conditions, cost principles, and other considerations described in the nih grants policy statement.pre-award costs are allowable only as described in the nih grants policy statement.7. other submission requirements and informationapplications must be submitted electronically following the instructions described in the sf424 (r&r) application guide. paper applications will not be accepted.for information on how your application will be automatically assembled for review and funding consideration after submission go to: http://grants.nih.gov/grants/electronicreceipt/files/electronic_multi-project_application_image_assembly.pdf.applicants must complete all required registrations before the application due date. section iii. eligibility information contains information about registration.for assistance with your electronic application or for more information on the electronic submission process, visit how to apply – application guide. if you encounter a system issue beyond your control that threatens your ability to complete the submission process on-time, you must follow the dealing with system issues guidance. for assistance with application submission, contact the application submission contacts in section vii.important reminders:all pd(s)/pi(s) and component project leads must include their era commons id in the credential field of the senior/key person profile form. failure to register in the commons and to include a valid pd/pi commons id in the credential field will prevent the successful submission of an electronic application to nih.the applicant organization must ensure that the unique entity identifier provided on the application is the same identifier used in the organization’s profile in the era commons and for the system for award management. additional information may be found in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.see more tips for avoiding common errors.upon receipt, applications will be evaluated for completeness and compliance with application instructions by the center for scientific review and nigms. applications that are incomplete or non-compliant will not be reviewed.post submission materialsapplicants are required to follow the instructions for post-submission materials, as described in the policy.in addition to the materials listed in the post submission policy, updates on funding obtained (not applications submitted) by rpls or ppls who participated in phase 1 of the cobre center will also be accepted.1. criteriaonly the review criteria described below will be considered in the review process. applications submitted to the nih in support of the nih mission are evaluated for scientific and technical merit through the nih peer review system.note: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023, the data sharing plan and genomic data sharing plan (gds) will not be evaluated at time of review.a proposed clinical trial application may include study design, methods, and intervention that are not by themselves innovative but address important questions or unmet needs. additionally, the results of the clinical trial may indicate that further clinical development of the intervention is unwarranted or lead to new avenues of scientific investigation.reviewers will provide an overall impact score to reflect their assessment of the likelihood for the center to exert a sustained, powerful influence on the research field(s) involved, in consideration of the following review criteria and additional review criteria (as applicable for the center proposed).reviewers will consider each of the review criteria below in the determination of scientific merit, and give a separate score for each. an application does not need to be strong in all categories to be judged likely to have major scientific impact. for example, a center that by its nature is not innovative may be essential to advance a field.significanceis the center aligned with the institution's strategic priorities in developing research capacity? does the institution justify the continuation of the center? does the center address and important problem or a critical barrier in the field? do the specific aims of the center outline how the proposed work will advance knowledge, technical capabilities and/or clinical practice in the field of research? will plans for phase 2 significantly strengthen the center that was established during phase 1?to what extent do the efforts described in the plan for enhancing diverse perspectives further the significance of the center?program accomplishments: has the center brought together a cadre of investigators working in the center's research area? has the institution invested in the recruitment of investigators working in the scientific area of the center? have recruitment efforts increased the biomedical research capacity of the institution? has the center achieved specific benchmarks proposed for phase 1, which for rpls include career progression, attainment of independent research funding, and publishing their results in peer-reviewed journals? is there evidence that the competitiveness of these investigators for nih or other external peer-reviewed research grant support has been enhanced through cobre support?investigator(s)does the pd(s)/pi(s) have the appropriate background to lead, develop, and direct the cobre to continue enhancing research capacity at the institution in a biomedical research area? has the pd(s)/pi(s) shown effective leadership in directing and managing the phase 1 cobre, if applicable? has the pd(s)/pi(s) provided evidence of successfully mentoring and guiding early career investigators? does the pd(s)/pi(s) have a record of sustained leadership of a productive research group in the scientific area of the center?to what extent will the efforts described in the plan for enhancing diverse perspectives strengthen and enhance the expertise required for the center?innovationdoes the application challenge and seek to shift current research or clinical practice paradigms by utilizing novel theoretical concepts, approaches or methodologies, instrumentation, or interventions? are the concepts, approaches or methodologies, instrumentation, or interventions novel to one field of research or novel in a broad sense? is a refinement, improvement, or new application of theoretical concepts, approaches or methodologies, instrumentation, or interventions proposed?to what extent will the efforts described in the plan for enhancing diverse perspectives meaningfully contribute to innovation?approachdoes the overall plan for the center support the need for continuation of funding into phase 2?do the proposed research projects contribute adequately to the overall enhancement of biomedical research capacity in the center’s scientific area at the applicant institution? do the proposed research projects support the scientific goals of the center and the strategic priorities of the institution?are plans for the recruitment of new investigators consistent with the goals of strengthening biomedical research capacity in the scientific area of the center? does the application provide viable plans for maintaining a pipeline of rpl candidates in the research field of the center?are qualified established investigators assigned as mentors to rpls? are the mentors adequately prepared/trained to provide advice and guidance to rpls? does the mentoring plan include clear strategies to guide the rpls? is mentoring performance assessed and evaluated?is the proposed composition of the advisory committee appropriate? is the proposed scientific and administrative expertise of ac members adequate to assess the research and capacity building progress of the center and to offer advice to the pd(s)/pi(s) on scientific and career development matters, including the assessment of new research projects and rpls to the pd(s)/pi(s)? is the role of the ac in these matters adequately described?are the timeline and milestones associated with the plan for enhancing diverse perspectives well-developed and feasible?environmentwill the scientific environment in which the work will be done contribute to the probability of success? is the institutional support, including equipment and other physical resources provided to the investigators, adequate for the proposed center? does the application demonstrate the institutional commitment to support the goal of strengthening the biomedical research capacity in the scientific area of the center?does the applicant institution demonstrate a commitment to recruit and support faculty investigators in the scientific area of the center? do the environment and resources available at the institution meet the needs of the research cores, rpls, and ppls? has prior cobre support improved facilities or made available new and collaborative resources (e.g., laboratory facilities, patient populations, laboratory space and personnel)?to what extent is the plan for enhancing diverse perspectives compatible with the institutional environment, the institution’s strategic priorities for growing its research capacity, and its potential contributions to the success of the center?review criteria for coresreviewers will provide an overall impact score to reflect their assessment of the likelihood for the core to exert a sustained impact on the research field(s) involved, in consideration of the following review criteria and additional review criteria.administrative coredoes the organizational and management plan for the administrative core provide confidence that the overall goals of the center will be fully implemented?is there a well-integrated plan to manage and coordinate the cores, projects, advisory committee, and mentors to achieve the center's goals?is there a clear plan to carry out all responsibilities required of the cobre award including, but not limited to, preparing accurate and timely progress reports, ensuring all center activities are in compliance with federal regulations, managing the center's budget and financial reporting, and organizing center-wide scientific and career development activities?are appropriate formative and summative strategies described for conducting annual evaluations of the center? are there suitable plans for implementing recommendations of the ac?does the administrative core provide a clear rpl development plan that helps rpls to successfully transition to independent research funding? does the plan provide specific milestones for the acquisition of independent funding by the investigators and subsequent graduation from cobre support?are appropriate plans in place to manage mentor training and evaluation?is the process of selecting candidate investigators and reviewing replacement research projects by the ac structured appropriately?is the pilot projects program aligned with the scientific goals of the center? are the plans for solicitation and prioritization of proposals suitable to attract investigators that broaden the expertise in the scientific area of the center and encourage the development of novel concepts, approaches, and methodologies? do the plans articulate adequate procedures for the review of proposals? are suitable processes proposed to evaluate the progress and success of the pilot projects? if a pilot projects program has been in place during phase 1, have prior pilot project leaders achieved success at publishing their results and generating data that enable them to secure peer-reviewed independent funding?research coresis the request to support the research core well justified? does the core provide suitable scientific support to the proposed research projects? if a core has been supported by the phase 1 cobre award, did it develop a successful business plan and establish a strong user base? does the core director have the expertise to provide the necessary oversight to administer the maintenance and growth of existing core resources and laboratory facilities to carry out the scientific objectives outlined in the application? has the core director and/or the pd(s)/pi(s) (as appropriate) obtained sufficient institutional commitments to ensure that the resources and facilities required to sustain and enhance the core will be available?review criteria for individual research projectsfor each research project, reviewers will provide an overall impact score to reflect their assessment of the merits of the proposed research, the rpl, and the likelihood that the project along with the mentoring provided by the center will advance the rpl’s scientific career, in consideration of the following review criteria and the additional review criteria.in addition, for applications involving clinical trials: a proposed clinical trial application may include study design, methods, and interventions that are not by themselves innovative but address important questions or unmet needs. additionally, the results of the clinical trial may indicate that further clinical development of the intervention is unwarranted or lead to new avenues of scientific investigation.as applicable for the overall application, core(s) and projects proposed, reviewers will evaluate the following additional items while determining scientific and technical merit, and in providing an overall impact score, but will not give separate scores for these items.study timelinespecific to applications involving clinical trialsis the study timeline described in detail, taking into account start-up activities, the anticipated rate of enrollment, and planned follow-up assessment? is the projected timeline feasible and well justified? does the project incorporate efficiencies and utilize existing resources (e.g., ctsas, practice-based research networks, electronic medical records, administrative database, or patient registries) to increase the efficiency of participant enrollment and data collection, as appropriate?are potential challenges and corresponding solutions discussed (e.g., strategies that can be implemented in the event of enrollment shortfalls)?protections for human subjectsfor research that involves human subjects but does not involve one of the categories of research that are exempt under 45 cfr part 46, the committee will evaluate the justification for involvement of human subjects and the proposed protections from research risk relating to their participation according to the following five review criteria: 1) risk to subjects, 2) adequacy of protection against risks, 3) potential benefits to the subjects and others, 4) importance of the knowledge to be gained, and 5) data and safety monitoring for clinical trials.for research that involves human subjects and meets the criteria for one or more of the categories of research that are exempt under 45 cfr part 46, the committee will evaluate: 1) the justification for the exemption, 2) human subjects involvement and characteristics, and 3) sources of materials. for additional information on review of the human subjects section, please refer to the guidelines for the review of human subjects.inclusion of women, minorities, and individuals across the lifespanwhen the proposed project involves human subjects and/or nih-defined clinical research, the committee will evaluate the proposed plans for the inclusion (or exclusion) of individuals on the basis of sex/gender, race, and ethnicity, as well as the inclusion (or exclusion) of individuals of all ages (including children and older adults) to determine if it is justified in terms of the scientific goals and research strategy proposed. for additional information on review of the inclusion section, please refer to the guidelines for the review of inclusion in clinical research.vertebrate animalsthe committee will evaluate the involvement of live vertebrate animals as part of the scientific assessment according to the following criteria: (1) description of proposed procedures involving animals, including species, strains, ages, sex, and total number to be used; (2) justifications for the use of animals versus alternative models and for the appropriateness of the species proposed; (3) interventions to minimize discomfort, distress, pain and injury; and (4) justification for euthanasia method if not consistent with the avma guidelines for the euthanasia of animals. reviewers will assess the use of chimpanzees as they would any other application proposing the use of vertebrate animals. for additional information on review of the vertebrate animals section, please refer to the worksheet for review of the vertebrate animal section.biohazardsreviewers will assess whether materials or procedures proposed are potentially hazardous to research personnel and/or the environment, and if needed, determine whether adequate protection is proposed.resubmissionsfor resubmissions, the committee will evaluate the application as now presented.renewalsfor renewals, the committee will consider the progress made in the last funding period.revisionsnot applicableas applicable for the overall application, core(s), and projects proposed, reviewers will consider each of the following items, but will not give scores for these items, and should not consider them in providing an overall impact score.applications from foreign organizationsnot applicableselect agent researchreviewers will assess the information provided in this section of the application, including 1) the select agent(s) to be used in the proposed research, 2) the registration status of all entities where select agent(s) will be used, 3) the procedures that will be used to monitor possession use and transfer of select agent(s), and 4) plans for appropriate biosafety, biocontainment, and security of the select agent(s).resource sharing plansnote: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023, the data sharing plan and genomic data sharing plan (gds) will not be evaluated at time of review.reviewers will comment on whether the resource sharing plan(s) (i.e., sharing model organisms) or the rationale for not sharing the resources, is reasonable.authentication of key biological and/or chemical resources:for projects involving key biological and/or chemical resources, reviewers will comment on the brief plans proposed for identifying and ensuring the validity of those resources.budget and period of supportreviewers will consider whether the budget and the requested period of support are fully justified and reasonable in relation to the proposed research.2. review and selection processapplications will be evaluated for scientific and technical merit by (an) appropriate scientific review group(s) convened by nigms, in accordance with nih peer review policy and procedures, using the stated review criteria. assignment to a scientific review group will be shown in the era commons.as part of the scientific peer review, all applications will receive a written critique.applications may undergo a selection process in which only those applications deemed to have the highest scientific and technical merit (generally the top half of applications under review) will be discussed and assigned an overall impact score.applications will be assigned on the basis of established phs referral guidelines to the appropriate nih institute or center. following initial peer review, recommended applications will receive a second level of review by the appropriate national advisory council or board. applications will compete for available funds with all other recommended applications. the following will be considered in making funding decisions:3. anticipated announcement and award datesafter the peer review of the application is completed, the pd/pi will be able to access his or her summary statement (written critique) via the era commons. refer to part 1 for dates for peer review, advisory council review, and earliest start date.information regarding the disposition of applications is available in the nih grants policy statement.1. award noticesif the application is under consideration for funding, nih will request "just-in-time" information from the applicant as described in the nih grants policy statement.a formal notification in the form of a notice of award (noa) will be provided to the applicant organization for successful applications. the noa signed by the grants management officer is the authorizing document and will be sent via email to the recipient's business official.recipients must comply with any funding restrictions described in section iv.6. funding restrictions. selection of an application for award is not an authorization to begin performance. any costs incurred before receipt of the noa are at the recipient's risk. these costs may be reimbursed only to the extent considered allowable pre-award costs.any application awarded in response to this foa will be subject to terms and conditions found on the award conditions and information for nih grants website. this includes any recent legislation and policy applicable to awards that is highlighted on this website.individual awards are based on the application submitted to, and as approved by, the nih and are subject to the ic-specific terms and conditions identified in the noa.clinicaltrials.gov: if an award provides for one or more clinical trials. by law (title viii, section 801 of public law 110-85), the "responsible party" must register and submit results information for certain “applicable clinical trials” on the clinicaltrials.gov protocol registration and results system information website (https://register.clinicaltrials.gov). nih expects registration and results reporting of all trials whether required under the law or not. for more information, see https://grants.nih.gov/policy/clinical-trials/reporting/index.htminstitutional review board or independent ethics committee approval: grantee institutions must ensure that all protocols are reviewed by their irb or iec. to help ensure the safety of participants enrolled in nih-funded studies, the recipient must provide nih copies of documents related to all major changes in the status of ongoing protocols.data and safety monitoring requirements: the nih policy for data and safety monitoring requires oversight and monitoring of all nih-conducted or -supported human biomedical and behavioral intervention studies (clinical trials) to ensure the safety of participants and the validity and integrity of the data. further information concerning these requirements is found at http://grants.nih.gov/grants/policy/hs/data_safety.htm and in the application instructions (sf424 (r&r) and phs 398).investigational new drug or investigational device exemption requirements: consistent with federal regulations, clinical research projects involving the use of investigational therapeutics, vaccines, or other medical interventions (including licensed products and devices for a purpose other than that for which they were licensed) in humans under a research protocol must be performed under a food and drug administration (fda) investigational new drug (ind) or investigational device exemption (ide).post-award program requirementsadministrative corepd(s)/pi(s) of cobre centers funded through this foa are expected to attend the national idea symposium of biomedical research excellence (nisbre) biennial meeting.research projectsrpls are named as key personnel on the notice of award.prior approval by nigms is required for adding or removing rpls from research projects. see "prior approval of pilot and replacement research projects" below for documents that must be submitted to nigms.when an rpl leaves the cobre, the grantee must notify nigms immediately and not wait until a replacement rpl has been identified. the new cobre research project that replaces the completed or terminated project must be reviewed by the pd(s)/pi(s) and the ac. the pd(s)/pi(s) must communicate the ac recommendation to nigms for its programmatic and administrative review.an rpl must submit an independent investigator-initiated, peer-reviewed research project grant (rpg) application by the end of two years of cobre support. it is expected that an rpl will be supported by the cobre for three years and then move to independent research support. cobre research project support beyond three years may be provided in circumstances where the cobre pd/pi and the ac have carefully evaluated the project’s progress and concluded that continued support is justified. support of an rpl by the cobre mechanism beyond a total of five years is not allowed.an rpl may be removed from the cobre program if a review by the ac indicates a failure by the investigator to make adequate progress toward achieving the specific aims of the research project or meeting milestones, including the failure to submit an investigator-initiated, peer-reviewed research grant application by the end of two years of cobre support.reductions in the level of effort of key personnel by 25% or more from the approved level or to a level below the required minimum stated in this foa, require the prior approval of nigms. pd(s)/pi(s) should consult with nigms program staff in advance regarding such requests. reductions in the level of effort of rpls below the six-person month requirement will not be approved except in extraordinary circumstances.when submitting a new research grant application, a rpl should include a statement acknowledging cobre program support and a plan for relinquishing cobre support if the proposed research is funded and overlaps with or is similar to the cobre project.when an rpl obtains independent research grant funding, nigms must be informed no later than the start date of the new award. if the new award overlaps with the work described in the cobre research project, is highly similar to the research project, or addresses a closely related topic, cobre support must end when the new award begins. if the new funding is a substantial, independent nih research award, such as an r01 or r01-equivalent award, but covers a different topic that does not overlap with or stem from the cobre research project, the cobre pd/pi may request prior approval for up to 6 months of continued cobre rpl support with no reduction to the rpl’s level of effort on the cobre project.pilot projectspilot project(s) must be reviewed by the ac. faculty investigators of all ranks are eligible, but it is strongly encouraged that early stage and new investigators be given priority for leading a pilot project. individuals holding postdoctoral, trainee, or similar non-independent positions are not eligible to lead cobre pilot projects.the center must provide assurance of full compliance with all applicable federal policies, rules, and guidelines for research involving human subjects, vertebrate animals, select agents, and/or biohazards.prior approval by nigms is required to add a new pilot project. see "prior approval of pilot and replacement research projects" below for documents that must be submitted to nigms.a ppl is required to devote at least one person-month of effort to the pilot project but is not named as key personnel in the cobre award. ppl removal from the cobre or changes to their level of effort that remain above the minimum commitment do not require prior approval but must be reported in annual research performance progress reports.prior approval of pilot and replacement research projectsprior approval from nih is required before a pilot project or replacement research project can begin. the following documentation for each pilot project (pp) and replacement research project (rp) must be submitted to nigms staff for administrative review:using phs398 forms and instructions, only the following sections need to be submitted:if the proposed rp or pp involves human biospecimens or data, include:if the proposed rp or pp involves human subjects, include:if the proposed project involves clinical trials, include:note: for human subjects or clinical trials, the grantee must enter study data in the human subjects system (hss) before requesting nigms approval.if the proposed project involves vertebrate animals, include:all nih grant and cooperative agreement awards include the nih grants policy statement as part of the noa. for these terms of award, see the nih grants policy statement part ii: terms and conditions of nih grant awards, subpart a: general and part ii: terms and conditions of nih grant awards, subpart b: terms and conditions for specific types of grants, recipients, and activities, including of note, but not limited to:if a recipient is successful and receives a notice of award, in accepting the award, the recipient agrees that any activities under the award are subject to all provisions currently in effect or implemented during the period of the award, other department regulations and policies in effect at the time of the award, and applicable statutory provisions.should the applicant organization successfully compete for an award, recipients of federal financial assistance (ffa) from hhs will be required to complete an hhs assurance of compliance form (hhs 690) in which the recipient agrees, as a term and condition of receiving the grant, to administer their programs in compliance with federal civil rights laws that prohibit discrimination on the basis of race, color, national origin, age, sex and disability, and agreeing to comply with federal conscience laws, where applicable. this includes ensuring that entities take meaningful steps to provide meaningful access to persons with limited english proficiency; and ensuring effective communication with persons with disabilities. where applicable, title xi and section 1557 prohibit discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation, and gender identity. the hhs office for civil rights provides guidance on complying with civil rights laws enforced by hhs. please see https://www.hhs.gov/civil-rights/for-providers/provider-obligations/index.html and https://www.hhs.gov/civil-rights/for-individuals/nondiscrimination/index.htmlhhs recognizes that research projects are often limited in scope for many reasons that are nondiscriminatory, such as the principal investigator’s scientific interest, funding limitations, recruitment requirements, and other considerations. thus, criteria in research protocols that target or exclude certain populations are warranted where nondiscriminatory justifications establish that such criteria are appropriate with respect to the health or safety of the subjects, the scientific study design, or the purpose of the research. for additional guidance regarding how the provisions apply to nih grant programs, please contact the scientific/research contact that is identified in section vii under agency contacts of this foa.please contact the hhs office for civil rights for more information about obligations and prohibitions under federal civil rights laws at https://www.hhs.gov/ocr/about-us/contact-us/index.html or call 1-800-368-1019 or tdd 1-800-537-7697.in accordance with the statutory provisions contained in section 872 of the duncan hunter national defense authorization act of fiscal year 2009 (public law 110-417), nih awards will be subject to the federal awardee performance and integrity information system (fapiis) requirements. fapiis requires federal award making officials to review and consider information about an applicant in the designated integrity and performance system (currently fapiis) prior to making an award. an applicant, at its option, may review information in the designated integrity and performance systems accessible through fapiis and comment on any information about itself that a federal agency previously entered and is currently in fapiis. the federal awarding agency will consider any comments by the applicant, in addition to other information in fapiis, in making a judgement about the applicant’s integrity, business ethics, and record of performance under federal awards when completing the review of risk posed by applicants as described in 45 cfr part 75.205 and 2 cfr part 200.206 “federal awarding agency review of risk posed by applicants.” this provision will apply to all nih grants and cooperative agreements except fellowships.not applicable3. data management and sharingnote: the nih policy for data management and sharing is effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023.consistent with the nih policy for data management and sharing, when data management and sharing is applicable to the award, recipients will be required to adhere to the data management and sharing requirements as outlined in the nih grants policy statement. upon the approval of a data management and sharing plan, it is required for recipients to implement the plan as described.when multiple years are involved, recipients will be required to submit the research performance progress report (rppr) annually and financial statements as required in the nih grants policy statement.progress reports should briefly describe status of pilot projects, including data and safety monitoring, and should notify nih of serious adverse events and unanticipated problems.a final rppr, invention statement, and the expenditure data portion of the federal financial report are required for closeout of an award, as described in the nih grants policy statement. nih foas outline intended research goals and objectives. post award, nih will review and measure performance based on the details and outcomes that are shared within the rppr, as described at 45 cfr part 75.301 and 2 cfr part 200.301.the federal funding accountability and transparency act of 2006 (transparency act), includes a requirement for recipients of federal grants to report information about first-tier subawards and executive compensation under federal assistance awards issued in fy2011 or later. all recipients of applicable nih grants and cooperative agreements are required to report to the federal subaward reporting system (fsrs) available at www.fsrs.gov on all subawards over the threshold. see the nih grants policy statement for additional information on this reporting requirement.in accordance with the regulatory requirements provided at 45 cfr 75.113and 2 cfr part 200.113 and appendix xii to 45 cfr part 75 and 2 cfr part 200, recipients that have currently active federal grants, cooperative agreements, and procurement contracts from all federal awarding agencies with a cumulative total value greater than $10,000,000 for any period of time during the period of performance of a federal award, must report and maintain the currency of information reported in the system for award management (sam)about civil, criminal, and administrative proceedings in connection with the award or performance of a federal award that reached final disposition within the most recent five-year period. the recipient must also make semiannual disclosures regarding such proceedings. proceedings information will be made publicly available in the designated integrity and performance system (currently fapiis). this is a statutory requirement under section 872 of public law 110-417, as amended (41 u.s.c. 2313). as required by section 3010 of public law 111-212, all information posted in the designated integrity and performance system on or after april 15, 2011, except past performance reviews required for federal procurement contracts, will be publicly available. full reporting requirements and procedures are found in appendix xii to 45 cfr part 75and 2 cfr part 200 – award term and condition for recipient integrity and performance matters.5. evaluationin carrying out the stewardship of grant programs, nigms will periodically evaluate the cobre program employing the representative measures identified below. in assessing the effectiveness of research capacity building investments, nigms may use information from progress reports and public databases, pds/pis, and from participants themselves. where necessary, pds/pis and participants may be contacted after the completion of the grant period for updates on participants’ subsequent outcomes, as appropriate. the overall evaluation of the program will be based on metrics that may include, but are not limited to, the following:we encourage inquiries concerning this funding opportunity and welcome the opportunity to answer questions from potential applicants.era service desk (questions regarding assist, era commons, application errors and warnings, documenting system problems that threaten submission by the due date, and post-submission issues)finding help online: https://www.era.nih.gov/need-help (preferred method of contact) telephone: 301-402-7469 or 866-504-9552 (toll free)general grants information (questions regarding application instructions, application processes, and nih grant resources) email: grantsinfo@nih.gov (preferred method of contact) telephone: 301-637-3015grants.gov customer support (questions regarding grants.gov registration and workspace) contact center telephone: 800-518-4726 email: support@grants.govfederico bernal, ph.d.national institute of general medical sciences (nigms)email: federico.bernal@nih.govstephanie constant, ph.d.national institute of general medical sciences (nigms)email: stephanie.constant@nih.govsamantha farrell, mhsnational institute of general medical sciences (nigms)email: samantha.farrell@nih.govrecently issued trans-nih policy notices may affect your application submission. a full list of policy notices published by nih is provided in the nih guide for grants and contracts. all awards are subject to the terms and conditions, cost principles, and other considerations described in the nih grants policy statement.awards are made under the authorization of sections 301 and 405 of the public health service act as amended (42 usc 241 and 284) and under federal regulations 42 cfr part 52 and 45 cfr part 75 and 2 cfr part 200.weekly toc for this announcement nih funding opportunities and noticesnote: for help accessing pdf, rtf, ms word, excel, powerpoint, audio or video files, see help downloading files.