Technology Development for Single-Molecule Protein Sequencing (R43/R44 Clinical Trial not allowed)
https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/pa-files/PAR-21-247.html
national institutes of health (nih)national human genome research institute (nhgri) national cancer institute (nci) national institute of allergy and infectious diseases (niaid)technology development for single-molecule protein sequencing (r43/r44 clinical trial not allowed)r43/r44 small business innovation research (sbir) grant - phase i, phase ii, and fast-tracknewpar-21-247rfa-hg-21-001 - technology development for single-molecule protein sequencing (r01 clinical trial not allowed)rfa-hg-21-002 - technology development for single-molecule protein sequencing (r21 clinical trial not allowed)see section iii. 3. additional information on eligibility.93.172, 93.855, 93.393, 93.394, 93.395, 93.396, 93.399this funding opportunity announcement (foa) solicits r43/r44 grant applications to catalyze major advances in single-molecule protein sequencing through technology development. the goal of this initiative is to achieve technological advances over the next five years that enable generation of protein sequencing data at sufficient scale, speed, cost and accuracy to use routinely in studies of genome biology and function, and in biomedical and clinical research in general. exploration of methods other than those currently being commercialized is highly encouraged.july 9, 2021new date september 1, 2021 per issuance of not-hg-21-043. (original open date: october 1, 2021)30 days prior to the application due dateoctober 1, 2021; june 15, 2022; june 15, 2023all applications are due by 5:00 pm local time of applicant organization. all types of non-aids applications allowed for this funding opportunity announcement are due on the listed date(s).applicants are encouraged to apply early to allow adequate time to make any corrections to errors found in the application during the submission process by the due date.not applicablefebruary/march 2022; october/november 2022; october/november 2023may 2022; february 2023; february 2024august 2022; may 2023; may 2024june 16, 2023not applicableit is critical that applicants follow the sbir/sttr (b) instructions in the sf424 (r&r) sbir/sttr application guide except where instructed to do otherwise (in this foa or in a notice from the nih guide for grants and contracts). conformance to all requirements (both in the application guide and the foa) is required and strictly enforced. applicants must read and follow all application instructions in the application guide as well as any program-specific instructions noted in section iv. when the program-specific instructions deviate from those in the application guide, follow the program-specific instructions. applications that do not comply with these instructions may be delayed or not accepted for review.there are several options available to submit your application through grants.gov to nih and department of health and human services partners. you must use one of these submission options to access the application forms for this opportunity.part 1. overview information part 2. full text of the announcementsection i. funding opportunity description section ii. award information section iii. eligibility information section iv. application and submission information section v. application review information section vi. award administration information section vii. agency contacts section viii. other informationpurposethis funding opportunity announcement (foa) solicits r43/r44 grant applications to accelerate innovation and early development in the emerging field of single-molecule protein sequencing (smps). this foa is seeking novel technologies or significant improvements to existing technologies. exploration of technologies other than those currently being commercialized is highly encouraged. the short-term goal of this initiative is technological improvements that lead to significant increases in one or more combinations of throughput, cost, accuracy, sensitivity, dynamic range, and scale. the long-term goal is to achieve technological advances that enable generation of protein sequencing data at sufficient scale, speed, cost and accuracy to use routinely in studies of genome biology and function, and in biomedical and clinical research in general.modern next-generation nucleic acid sequencing (ngs) has transformed the field of genomics and biomedicine due to its high throughput, low cost, and generalizability, and has enabled many clinical applications and research projects that are producing striking insights into biology and disease. proteomics has not had the same success or widespread adoption, partly because of a lack of proteomics technologies that have sufficient sensitivity and dynamic range for protein detection. also, the human proteome is extremely complex. the 20 amino acid building blocks of proteins and their modifications convey a great array of chemical diversity. the size of any given proteome is a matter of debate. for pathogens, the range varies depending on genome size and pathogen lifestyle. for humans, it theoretically ranges from about 20,000 (a single representative protein for every gene) to several million when factoring in combinations of dna-, rna- and posttranslational modification (ptm)-level variations (proteoforms). not all genes and their gene-product combinations are expressed in a given cell, however. in humans, it is estimated that about half of human genes (10,000) are expressed as proteins at over 20 copies per cell in a typical cell type, and proteins per cell may range from 1,000-15,000 depending on cell type and cell cycle stage. in addition, the dynamic range of proteins within a human cell can vary over 7 to 10 orders of magnitude. these factors compound the technological challenge to comprehensively characterize a given proteome.currently, the two main approaches to measuring proteins are affinity reagents and mass spectrometry. while these two approaches are extremely valuable, both have their limits with respect to proteome-wide detection. affinity reagents have excellent spatial resolution, but they rely on custom reagents, thus limiting unbiased work and scale. mass spectrometry has long been the mainstay technology for large-scale protein sequencing and quantitation, however it lacks the dynamic range and sensitivity needed to routinely detect low-abundance proteins. both techniques are constrained to operate above a given abundance level. to achieve proteome-scale capability, there is a need to significantly improve proteomics methods in terms of speed, sensitivity, and dynamic range.there is an emerging approach, single-molecule protein sequencing (smps), which is based on reading amino acid sequence from individual protein or peptide molecules, that could possibly address these needs. the most common single-molecule techniques being developed are based on nanopores, parallel-in-space fluorescent methods, and tunneling currents across nanogaps. these smps techniques have the potential to detect and quantify very small amounts of protein and proteoforms, and to approach the scale needed to enable the analysis of complex human protein samples. the realization of smps technologies would revolutionize the field of proteomics, allowing for a more facile unbiased cataloguing and assessment of protein-coding gene products in the human genome.this foa seeks to fund technology development research efforts in instrumentation innovation and sample preparation/processing approaches for single-molecule protein sequencing. the technology development proposed should have the potential to significantly propel the field of smps forward in the next five years, and have the potential to have a large impact on future studies of genome biology or genome function in general, but particularly in the context of cancer, cancer therapy, infectious and immune-mediated diseases. the proposed research also must have the clear potential to scale proteome-wide. the technology proposed can innovate substantially novel approaches or significantly improve (i.e., no less than tenfold) existing methodologies for smps. the foa deliberately does not specify cost, quality, scale, sensitivity, dynamic range, throughput, or other key metrics since achievable endpoints are likely to improve during the course of this initiative and can substantially differ from one technology to another. however, the applicant must propose quantitative metrics so progress can be evaluated, and have convincing rationale that the proposed technology has the potential to scale long-term and to achieve a throughput compatible with widespread adoption by the proteogenomics, biomedical and clinical research community.given the complexity of a given proteome, as noted above, for the purposes of this initiative, “potential to scale proteome wide” can be defined in the context of the specific technology and applications being proposed, and will depend on the chosen species, cell type, sample amount, as well as breadth vs. depth. for example, being able to identify and quantify routinely in a single experiment unique protein products from 10,000 genes from any human cell type; analyzing 1000s of proteins from small volumes of body fluids (serum, plasma, cerebral spinal fluid, sputum, etc.); identifying and quantifying unique proteins from 1000 genes from a single human cell; in-depth sequencing and proteoform analysis of pathogen antigens present in human samples; or a combination analysis of thousands of proteins and their proteoforms for unbiased biomarker discovery and clinical application. applications that do not address long-term potential to scale will be considered non-responsive to the foa. applicants may choose to work with any species and cell types, but the resulting technological advancements must be applicable to protein sequencing in human cells, to increase our understanding of basic biological processes related to human health and disease. further, the proposed technology should have the potential to go beyond a particular disease, ptm type, or cell/tissue type chosen for study and be more broadly applicable to the research community.it is expected that applicants will develop and detail scientific and practical definitions of optimal throughput, cost, accuracy, sensitivity, dynamic range, and scale. applicants are expected to propose innovations or improvements of no less than an order of magnitude, based on state-of-the-art at the time the application is submitted. such improvements may be achieved by focusing on one critical factor, or a combination of important ones to develop complete systems or novel key components for smps. while this opportunity is intended to focus on amino acid sequencing approaches, this foa is open to nucleic acid readouts as a proxy for protein sequencing (i.e. reverse-translation technology that turns peptide sequences into dna). research primarily focused on computational approaches (such as data analysis/modeling of complex data sets, understanding error in assigning amino acid position or side-chain identity) is not appropriate for this foa. however, the proposed experimental research will frequently be paired with computational components, such as analysis of the new or improved data types generated to maximize usefulness and derive information content.examples of possible research topics include, but are not limited to:research topics focused on mass spectrometry would not be considered within scope for this foa.applications not responsive to this foain summary, applications that would not be considered responsive include:if applicable, awardees are expected to comply with the nih genomic data sharing (gds) policy. more information on this expectation can be found in resource sharing plan section.see section viii. other information for award authorities and regulations.grant: a support mechanism providing money, property, or both to an eligible entity to carry out an approved project or activity.new (phase i) new (sbir direct phase ii) renewal (phase ii) resubmission (all phases)the oer glossary and the sf424 (r&r) sbir/sttr application guide provide details on these application types. only those application types listed here are allowed for this foa.not allowed: only accepting applications that do not propose clinical trialsneed help determining whether you are doing a clinical trial?the number of awards is contingent upon nih appropriations and the submission of a sufficient number of meritorious applications.total funding support (direct costs, indirect costs, fee) normally may not exceed $256,580 for phase i awards and $1,710,531 for phase ii awards. nih has received a waiver from sba, as authorized by statute, to exceed these total award amount hard caps for specific topics. the current list of approved topics can be found at https://sbir.nih.gov/funding#omni-sbir. navigate to the “program descriptions and research topics” document, appendix a or the current "sba approved topics list for budget waivers".applicants are strongly encouraged to contact program officials prior to submitting any application in excess of the hard caps listed above and early in the application planning process. in all cases, applicants should propose a budget that is reasonable and appropriate for completion of the research project.according to statutory guidelines, award periods normally may not exceed 6 months for phase i and 2 years for phase ii. applicants are encouraged to propose a project duration period that is reasonable and appropriate for completion of the research project.nih grants policies as described in the nih grants policy statement will apply to the applications submitted and awards made from this foa.only united states small business concerns (sbcs) are eligible to submit applications for this opportunity. a small business concern is one that, at the time of award of phase i and phase ii, meets all of the following criteria:1. is organized for profit, with a place of business located in the united states, which operates primarily within the united states or which makes a significant contribution to the united states economy through payment of taxes or use of american products, materials or labor;2. is in the legal form of an individual proprietorship, partnership, limited liability company, corporation, joint venture, association, trust or cooperative, except that where the form is a joint venture, there must be less than 50 percent participation by foreign business entities in the joint venture;3.i. sbir and sttr. be a concern which is more than 50% directly owned and controlled by one or more individuals (who are citizens or permanent resident aliens of the united states), other business concerns (each of which is more than 50% directly owned and controlled by individuals who are citizens or permanent resident aliens of the united states), an indian tribe, anc or nho (or a wholly owned business entity of such tribe, anc or nho), or any combination of these; orii. sbir-only. be a concern which is more than 50% owned by multiple venture capital operating companies, hedge funds, private equity firms, or any combination of these. no single venture capital operating company, hedge fund, or private equity firm may own more than 50% of the concern, unless that single venture capital operating company, hedge fund, or private equity firm qualifies as a small business concern that is more than 50% directly owned and controlled by individuals who are citizens or permanent resident aliens of the united states; oriii. sbir and sttr. be a joint venture in which each entity to the joint venture must meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 3 (i) or 3 (ii) of this section. a joint venture that includes one or more concerns that meet the requirements of paragraph (ii) of this section must comply with § 121.705(b) concerning registration and proposal requirements.4. has, including its affiliates, not more than 500 employees.if the concern is more than 50% owned by multiple venture capital operating companies, hedge funds, private equity firms, or any combination of these falls under 3 (ii) or 3 (iii) above, see section iv. application and submission information for additional instructions regarding required application certification.if an employee stock ownership plan owns all or part of the concern, each stock trustee and plan member is considered an owner.if a trust owns all or part of the concern, each trustee and trust beneficiary is considered an owner.definitions:sbcs must also meet the other regulatory requirements found in 13 c.f.r. part 121. business concerns, other than investment companies licensed, or state development companies qualifying under the small business investment act of 1958, 15 u.s.c. 661, et seq., are affiliates of one another when either directly or indirectly, (a) one concern controls or has the power to control the other; or (b) a third-party/parties controls or has the power to control both. business concerns include, but are not limited to, any individual (sole proprietorship) partnership, corporation, joint venture, association, or cooperative. the sf424 (r&r) sbir/sttr application guide should be referenced for detailed eligibility information.small business concerns that are more than 50% owned by multiple venture capital operating companies, hedge funds, private equity firms, or any combination of these are not eligible to apply to the nih sttr program.performance benchmark requirementsphase i to phase ii transition rate benchmark: in accordance with guidance from the sba, the hhs sbir/sttr program is implementing the phase i to phase ii transition rate benchmark required by the sbir/sttr reauthorization act of 2011 and the sbir and sttr extension act of 2022. the benchmark establishes a minimum number of phase ii awards the company must have received relative to a given number of phase i awards received during the 5-fiscal year time period. the transition rate is calculated as the total number of sbir and sttr phase ii awards a company received during the past 5 fiscal years divided by the total number of sbir and sttr phase i awards it received during the past 5 fiscal years excluding the most recently-completed year. the transition rate requirement, agreed upon and established by all 11 sbir agencies, was published for public comment in a federal register notice on october 16, 2012 (77 fr 63410) and amended on may 23, 2013 (78 fr 30951).on june 1 of each year, sba will identify the companies that fail to meet minimum performance requirements.sba calculates individual company phase i to phase ii transition rates using sbir and sttr award information across all federal agencies. sba will notify companies and the relevant officials at the participating agencies. more information on the phase i to phase ii transition rate requirement is available at sbir.gov.phase ii to commercialization benchmark: in accordance with guidance from the sba, the hhs sbir/sttr programs are implementing the phase ii to commercialization rate benchmark for phase i applicants, as required by the sbir/sttr reauthorization act of 2011 and the sbir and sttr extension act of 2022. the commercialization rate benchmark was published in a federal register notice on august 8, 2013 (78 fr 48537), with a reopening of the comment period published on september 26, 2013 (78 fr 59410).non-domestic (non-u.s.) entities (foreign institutions) are not eligible to apply. non-domestic (non-u.s.) components of u.s. organizations are not eligible to apply. foreign components, as defined in the nih grants policy statement, may be allowed.applicant organizationsapplicant organizations must complete and maintain the following registrations as described in the sf 424 (r&r) application guide to be eligible to apply for or receive an award. all registrations must be completed prior to the application being submitted. registration can take 6 weeks or more, so applicants should begin the registration process as soon as possible. the nih policy on late submission of grant applications states that failure to complete registrations in advance of a due date is not a valid reason for a late submission.program directors/principal investigators (pd(s)/pi(s))all pd(s)/pi(s) must have an era commons account. pd(s)/pi(s) should work with their organizational officials to either create a new account or to affiliate their existing account with the applicant organization in era commons. if the pd/pi is also the organizational signing official, they must have two distinct era commons accounts, one for each role. obtaining an era commons account can take up to 2 weeks.any individual(s) with the skills, knowledge, and resources necessary to carry out the proposed research as the program director(s)/principal investigator(s) (pd(s)/pi(s)) is invited to work with his/her organization to develop an application for support. individuals from underrepresented racial and ethnic groups as well as individuals with disabilities are always encouraged to apply for nih support.under the sbir program, for both phase i and phase ii, the primary employment of the pd/pi must be with the small business concern at the time of award and during the conduct of the proposed project. for projects with multiple pds/pis, at least one must meet the primary employment requirement. occasionally, deviations from this requirement may occur.the sf424 (r&r) sbir/sttr application guide should be referenced for specific details on eligibility requirements. for institutions/organizations proposing multiple pds/pis, see multiple principal investigators section of the sf424 (r&r) sbir/sttr application guide.this foa does not require cost sharing as defined in the nih grants policy statement.applicant organizations may submit more than one application, provided that each application is scientifically distinct.nih will not accept similar grant applications with essentially the same research focus from the same applicant organization. this includes derivative or multiple applications that propose to develop a single product, process, or service that, with non-substantive modifications, can be applied to a variety of purposes. applicants may not simultaneously submit identical/essentially identical applications under both this funding opportunity and any other hhs funding opportunity, including the sbir and sttr parent announcements.the nih will not accept duplicate or highly overlapping applications under review at the same time. this means that the nih will not accept:a phase i awardee may submit a phase ii application either before or after expiration of the phase i budget period, unless the awardee elects to submit a phase i and phase ii application concurrently under the fast-track procedure. to maintain eligibility to seek phase ii or iib support, a phase i awardee should submit a phase ii application, and a phase ii awardee should submit a phase iib application, within the first six due dates following the expiration of the phase i or ii budget period, respectively.in phase i, normally, two-thirds or 67% of the research or analytical effort is carried out by the small business concern. the total amount of all consultant and contractual arrangements to third parties for portions of the scientific and technical effort is generally not more than 33% of the total amount requested (direct, f&a/indirect, and fee). in phase ii, normally, one-half or 50% of the research or analytical effort is carried out by the small business concern. the total amount of consultant and contractual arrangements to third parties for portions of the scientific and technical effort is generally not more than 50% of the total phase ii amount requested (direct, f&a/indirect, and fee).we encourage you to contact a program officer listed in section vii with questions about this because occasionally, deviations from these requirements may occur, and must be approved in writing by the funding agreement officer after consultation with the agency sbir program manager/coordinator.a small business concern may subcontract a portion of its sbir or sttr award to a federal laboratory within the limits above. a federal laboratory, as defined in 15 u.s.c. § 3703, means any laboratory, any federally funded research and development center, or any center established under 15 u.s.c. §§ 3705 & 3707 that is owned, leased, or otherwise used by a federal agency and funded by the federal government, whether operated by the government or by a contractor.the basis for determining the percentage of work to be performed by each of the cooperative parties in phase i or phase ii will be the total of the requested costs attributable to each party, unless otherwise described and justified in “consortium/contractual arrangements” of the phs 398 research plan component of sf424 (r&r) application forms.additional details are contained in the sf424 (r&r) sbir/sttr application guide.the application forms package specific to this opportunity must be accessed through assist, grants.gov workspace or an institutional system-to-system solution. links to apply using assist or grants.gov workspace are available in part 1 of this foa. see your administrative office for instructions if you plan to use an institutional system-to-system solution.it is critical that applicants follow the sbir/sttr (b) instructions in the sf424 (r&r) sbir/sttr application guide, except where instructed in this funding opportunity announcement to do otherwise. conformance to the requirements in the application guide is required and strictly enforced. applications that are out of compliance with these instructions may be delayed or not accepted for review.although a letter of intent is not required, is not binding, and does not enter into the review of a subsequent application, the information that it contains allows ic staff to estimate the potential review workload and plan the review.by the date listed in part 1. overview information, prospective applicants are asked to submit a letter of intent that includes the following information:the letter of intent should be sent to:temesgen d. fufa, ph.d.email: temesgen.fufa@nih.govall page limitations described in the sf424 (r&r) sbir/sttr application guide and the table of page limits must be followed.instructions for application submissionnote: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023, the data management and sharing (dms) plan will be attached in the other plan(s) attachment in forms-h subsequent application forms packages. for due dates on or before january 24, 2023, the data sharing plan and genomic data sharing plan gds) will continue to be attached in the resource sharing plan attachment in forms-g application forms packages.the following section supplements the instructions found in the sf 424 (r&r) sbir/sttr application guide and should be used for preparing an application to this foa.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) sbir/sttr application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) sbir/sttr application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) sbir/sttr application guide must be followed, with the following additional instructions:other attachments:1. sbir application certification for small business concerns majority-owned by multiple venture capital operating companies, hedge funds, or private equity firms.applicant small business concerns that are majority-owned by multiple venture capital operating companies, hedge funds, or private equity firms (e.g. majority vcoc-owned) are required to submit a certification at time of their application submission per the sbir policy directive. follow the instructions below.applicants small business concerns who are more than 50% directly owned and controlled by one or more individuals (who are citizens or permanent resident aliens of the united states), other business concerns (each of which is more than 50% directly owned and controlled by individuals who are citizens or permanent resident aliens of the united states), or any combination of these (i.e. not majority vcoc-owned) should not fill out this certification and should not attach it their application package.a. download the “vcoc certification.pdf” at the nih sbir forms webpage.b. answer the 3 questions and check the certification boxes.c. the authorized business official must sign the certification.d. save the certification using the original file name. the file must be named “sbir application vcoc certification.pdf”. do not change or alter the file name. changing the file name may cause delays in the processing of your application.e. when you are completing the application package, attach this certification as a separate file by clicking "add attachments" located to the right of other attachments field on the “research and related other project information” form.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) sbir/sttr application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) sbir/sttr application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) sbir/sttr application guide must be followed.other plan(s):note: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023, the data management and sharing plan will be attached in the other plan(s) attachment in forms-h and subsequent application forms packages. for due dates on or before january 24, 2023, the data sharing plan and genomic data sharing plan gds) will continue to be attached in the resource sharing plan attachment in forms-g application forms packages.all applicants planning research (funded or conducted in whole or in part by nih) that results in the generation of scientific data are required to comply with the instructions for the data management and sharing plan. all small business innovation research (sbir) and small business technology transfer (sttr) applicants are required to address a data management and sharing plan, regardless of the amount of direct costs requested for any one year. however, sbir and sttr recipients may retain the rights to data generated during the performance of an sbir or sttr award for up to 20 years after the award date, per the small business innovation research (sbir) and small business technology transfer (sttr) program policy directive. an acceptable data management and sharing plan can reference and incorporate these data rights. further information about sbir and sttr data rights are enumerated in the nih gps.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) sbir/sttr application guide must be followed, with the following additional instructions:research strategy: applicants should provide an overview of the technology being proposed and clearly specify whether the research strategy aims to improve existing or develop novel smps technology. the relationship to existing technologies should be described, including the opportunity for significant improvements in one or more critical factors of throughput, cost, accuracy, sensitivity, dynamic range and scale. scientific and practical definitions of these critical factors should be described. the specific metrics being proposed for improvement should be specified, as well as robust plans for validating and achieving them. also, the applicant should clearly state how the technology development proposed has the potential to significantly propel the field of smps forward in the next five to seven years, and has the potential to have a large impact on future studies of genome biology or genome function. applicants should also describe how they are defining proteome-wide, and how the proposed technology has the potential to scale proteome wide. this potential needs to be demonstrated at some level during the course of the project.the research plan should include a description of the level of risk of key technical challenges and alternative approaches. the research plan should clearly describe strategies to manage the inherent risk, for example, by a firm theoretical basis, supportive preliminary data, incorporating key project decision points, determining resource re-allocation, project re-direction, track record of the lead investigators acting as a team, and an outstanding scientific and management plan.it should also include a detailed timeline accompanied by quantitative milestones that address the key scientific and technical challenges central to the approach. timelines and quantitative milestones are essential for development of a realistic research strategy; they provide a basis for project leaders to make decisions, assess their own progress, set priorities, and redistribute resources when needed. it is particularly important to establish quantitative milestones in cases where subsequent steps in technology development depend upon threshold performance characteristics of earlier developments.if an internal advisory board is planned, its role in managing project decision points and resource allocation should also be described. however, advisors should not be recruited or named in the application to avoid potential conflicts in the review process.resource sharing plans: individuals are required to comply with the instructions for the resource sharing plans as provided in the sf424 (r&r) sbir/sttr application guide, with the following modification:to accelerate progress in the field of single-molecule protein sequencing technology development, grantees will be required to participate actively and openly in one meeting per year convened by nhgri. substantial information sharing will be required as appropriate and consistent with achieving the goals of the program and is a condition of the award; failure to openly share information may be grounds for discontinuation of funding. it is understood that some information developed under the grants will be proprietary and cannot be shared immediately without damaging the commercialization potential of the technology. applicants must describe their plans for participating in the meetings and for managing the intellectual property concerns in the context of those meetings and other opportunities for information sharing. other investigators in the field (i.e., not supported under this program) may be invited to participate in these meetings. agreement to share information substantially will be a prerequisite to participation by other investigators.applicants are expected to describe their plan for providing access to the technology developed under this grant support, and information about that technology, consistent with achieving the goals of this program. for example, the technology might be made available as a fee-for-service, through sale of instruments and/or reagents, through collaboration, through publication and posting of results, plans and methods, or by other means. if any quantity of data will be collected under grant support, it is expected that a plan to disseminate those data will be described, consistent with achieving the goals of this program.if applicable, awardees are expected to comply with the nih genomic data sharing (gds) policy. nhgri supports the broadest appropriate genomic data sharing with timely data release through widely accessible data repositories. more information on this expectation can be found on nhgri’s genomic data sharing policy faqs webpage. if applicable, gds should be addressed in the resource sharing plan.appendix:note that phase i sbir/sttr appendix materials are not permitted. only limited items are allowed in the appendix of other small business applications. the instructions for the appendix of the research plan are described in the sf424 (r&r) application guide; any instructions provided here are in addition to the sf424 (r&r) application guide instructions.when involving human subjects research, clinical research, and/or nih-defined clinical trials follow all instructions for the phs human subjects and clinical trials information form in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, with the following additional instructions:if you answered “yes” to the question “are human subjects involved?” on the r&r other project information form, you must include at least one human subjects study record using the study record: phs human subjects and clinical trials information form or a delayed onset study record.study record: phs human subjects and clinical trials informationall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.delayed onset studynote: delayed onset does not apply to a study that can be described but will not start immediately (i.e., delayed start).all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) sbir/sttr application guide must be followed.see part 1. section iii.1 for information regarding the requirement for obtaining a unique entity identifier and for completing and maintaining active registrations in system for award management (sam), sba company registry, era commons, and grants.gov.part i. overview information contains information about key dates and time. applicants are encouraged to submit applications before the due date to ensure they have time to make any application corrections that might be necessary for successful submission. when a submission date falls on a weekend or federal holiday, the application deadline is automatically extended to the next business day.organizations must submit applications to grants.gov (the online portal to find and apply for grants across all federal agencies). applicants must then complete the submission process by tracking the status of the application in the era commons, nih’s electronic system for grants administration. nih and grants.gov systems check the application against many of the application instructions upon submission. errors must be corrected and a changed/corrected application must be submitted to grants.gov on or before the application due date and time. if a changed/corrected application is submitted after the deadline, the application will be considered late. applications that miss the due date and time are subjected to the nih policy on late application submission.applicants are responsible for viewing their application before the due date in the era commons to ensure accurate and successful submission.information on the submission process and a definition of on-time submission are provided in the sf424 (r&r) sbir/sttr application guide.this initiative is not subject to intergovernmental review.all nih awards are subject to the terms and conditions, cost principles, and other considerations described in the nih grants policy statement.pre-award costs are allowable only as described in the nih grants policy statement.applications must be submitted electronically following the instructions described in the sf424 (r&r) sbir/sttr application instructions. paper applications will not be accepted.applicants must complete all required registrations before the application due date. section iii. eligibility information contains information about registration.for assistance with your electronic application or for more information on the electronic submission process, visit how to apply – application guide. if you encounter a system issue beyond your control that threatens your ability to complete the submission process on-time, you must follow the dealing with system issues guidance. for assistance with application submission, contact the application submission contacts in section vii.important reminders:all pd(s)/pi(s) must include their era commons id in the credential field of the senior/key person profile component of the sf424(r&r) application package. failure to register in the commons and to include a valid pd/pi commons id in the credential field will prevent the successful submission of an electronic application to nih.the applicant organization must ensure that the duns number it provides on the application is the same number used in the organization’s profile in the era commons and for the system for award management (sam). additional information may be found in the sf424 (r&r) sbir/sttr application guide.see more tips for avoiding common errors.upon receipt, applications will be evaluated for completeness and compliance with application instructions by the center for scientific review, nih. applications that are incomplete or non-compliant will not be reviewed.non-responsive criteria are listed within part 2, section i, funding opportunity description under a sub-heading called “applications not responsive to this foa".applicants are required to follow the instructions for post-submission materials, as described in the policy -. any instructions below are in addition to the instructions in the policy:in addition, a progress update may be submitted, limited to one printed page:- the update is limited to new data supporting the original aims.- additional or updated aims, or tasks cannot be proposed with the update.- the update must be transmitted as a pdf file, by the authorized organization representative (aor) of the applicant organization, by e-mail to the peer review contact listed below.- the update must be transmitted at least 45 days before the peer review meeting (check your nih commons page for the assigned peer review date).- any other post-submission materials are due 30 days before the meeting, according to policy.note: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023, the data sharing plan and genomic data sharing plan (gds) as part of the resource sharing plan will not be evaluated at time of review.only the review criteria described below will be considered in the review process. applications submitted to the nih in support of the nih mission are evaluated for scientific and technical merit through the nih peer review system.reviewers will provide an overall impact score to reflect their assessment of the likelihood for the project to exert a sustained, powerful influence on the research field(s) involved, in consideration of the following review criteria and additional review criteria (as applicable for the project proposed).reviewers will consider each of the review criteria below in the determination of scientific merit, and give a separate score for each. an application does not need to be strong in all categories to be judged likely to have major scientific impact. for example, a project that by its nature is not innovative may be essential to advance a field.does the project address an important problem or a critical barrier to progress in the field? is the prior research that serves as the key support for the proposed project rigorous? if the aims of the project are achieved, how will scientific knowledge, technical capability, and/or clinical practice be improved? how will successful completion of the aims change the concepts, methods, technologies, treatments, services, or preventative interventions that drive this field? does the proposed project have commercial potential to lead to a marketable product, process or service? (in the case of phase ii, fast-track, and phase ii competing renewals, does the commercialization plan demonstrate a high probability of commercialization?)do the methods propose new approaches or significant improvements to existing methods, as opposed to work that represents incremental improvements to existing methods?does the proposed research have potential to significantly propel the smps field forward in a five-year timeframe?does the proposed research have the potential to influence future studies of genome biology or genome function?are the pd(s)/pi(s), collaborators, and other researchers well suited to the project? if early stage investigators or those in the early stages of independent careers, do they have appropriate experience and training? if established, have they demonstrated an ongoing record of accomplishments that have advanced their field(s)? if the project is collaborative or multi-pd/pi, do the investigators have complementary and integrated expertise; are their leadership approach, governance and organizational structure appropriate for the project?does the application challenge and seek to shift current research or clinical practice paradigms by utilizing novel theoretical concepts, approaches or methodologies, instrumentation, or interventions? are the concepts, approaches or methodologies, instrumentation, or interventions novel to one field of research or novel in a broad sense? is a refinement, improvement, or new application of theoretical concepts, approaches or methodologies, instrumentation, or interventions proposed?are the overall strategy, methodology, and analyses well-reasoned and appropriate to accomplish the specific aims of the project? have the investigators included plans to address weaknesses in the rigor of prior research that serves as the key support for the proposed project? have the investigators presented strategies to ensure a robust and unbiased approach, as appropriate for the work proposed? are potential problems, alternative strategies, and benchmarks for success presented? if the project is in the early stages of development, will the strategy establish feasibility and will particularly risky aspects be managed? for a phase i application, are there clear, appropriate, measurable goals (milestones) that should be achieved prior to initiating phase ii? have the investigators presented adequate plans to address relevant biological variables, such as sex, for studies in vertebrate animals or human subjects?does the research plan include scientific and practical definitions of optimal throughput, cost, accuracy, sensitivity, dynamic range, and scale; and does the approach allow for a roadmap to achieve the proposed innovations or significant improvements in one or more of these critical factors in order to develop complete systems or novel key components for smps?are the proposed innovations or improvements in these critical factors well developed and well informed, relative to the state of the technology? is there a robust plan for validating the resulting determinations?are highly innovative or high-risk plans counterbalanced to manage the inherent risk, for example by firm theoretical basis, reasonable preliminary data, the track record of the lead investigators, and an outstanding scientific and management plan?are key technical challenges and their dependencies identified? does the applicant adequately address the level of risk of key technical challenges, alternative approaches, go/no-go decision points? are the applicant's plans to manage risk by managing key project decision points, determining resource re-allocation, project re-direction, etc. well described?are plans to participate actively and openly in annual meetings sufficiently clear and forthcoming so as to contribute substantially to advancement of the field?if the project involves human subjects and/or nih-defined clinical research, are the plans to address:1) the protection of human subjects from research risks, and2) inclusion (or exclusion) of individuals on the basis of sex/gender, race, and ethnicity, as well as the inclusion or exclusion of individuals of all ages (including children and older adults), justified in terms of the scientific goals and research strategy proposed?will the scientific environment in which the work will be done contribute to the probability of success? are the institutional support, equipment and other physical resources available to the investigators adequate for the project proposed? will the project benefit from unique features of the scientific environment, subject populations, or collaborative arrangement?as applicable for the project proposed, reviewers will evaluate the following additional items while determining scientific and technical merit, and in providing an overall impact score, but will not give separate scores for these items.for phase ii applications, how well did the applicant demonstrate progress toward meeting the phase i objectives, demonstrating feasibility, and providing a solid foundation for the proposed phase ii activity?for phase i/phase ii fast-track applications, reviewers will consider the following:1. does the phase i application specify clear, appropriate, measurable goals (milestones) that should be achieved prior to initiating phase ii?2. to what extent was the applicant able to obtain letters of interest, additional funding commitments, and/or resources from the private sector or non-sbir/sttr funding sources that would enhance the likelihood for commercialization?for research that involves human subjects but does not involve one of the categories of research that are exempt under 45 cfr part 46, the committee will evaluate the justification for involvement of human subjects and the proposed protections from research risk relating to their participation according to the following five review criteria: 1) risk to subjects, 2) adequacy of protection against risks, 3) potential benefits to the subjects and others, 4) importance of the knowledge to be gained, and 5) data and safety monitoring for clinical trials.for research that involves human subjects and meets the criteria for one or more of the categories of research that are exempt under 45 cfr part 46, the committee will evaluate: 1) the justification for the exemption, 2) human subjects involvement and characteristics, and 3) sources of materials. for additional information on review of the human subjects section, please refer to the guidelines for the review of human subjects.when the proposed project involves human subjects and/or nih-defined clinical research, the committee will evaluate the proposed plans for the inclusion (or exclusion) of individuals on the basis of sex/gender, race, and ethnicity, as well as the inclusion (or exclusion) of individuals of all ages (including children and older adults) to determine if it is justified in terms of the scientific goals and research strategy proposed. for additional information on review of the inclusion section, please refer to the guidelines for the review of inclusion in clinical research.the committee will evaluate the involvement of live vertebrate animals as part of the scientific assessment according to the following criteria: (1) description of proposed procedures involving animals, including species, strains, ages, sex, and total number to be used; (2) justifications for the use of animals versus alternative models and for the appropriateness of the species proposed; (3) interventions to minimize discomfort, distress, pain and injury; and (4) justification for euthanasia method if not consistent with the avma guidelines for the euthanasia of animals. reviewers will assess the use of chimpanzees as they would any other application proposing the use of vertebrate animals. for additional information on review of the vertebrate animals section, please refer to the worksheet for review of the vertebrate animal section.reviewers will assess whether materials or procedures proposed are potentially hazardous to research personnel and/or the environment, and if needed, determine whether adequate protection is proposed.for resubmissions, the committee will evaluate the application as now presented, taking into consideration the responses to comments from the previous scientific review group and changes made to the project.not applicable.not applicable.note: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023, the data sharing plan and genomic data sharing plan (gds) as part of the resource sharing plan will not be evaluated at time of review.as applicable for the project proposed, reviewers will consider each of the following items, but will not give scores for these items, and should not consider them in providing an overall impact score.reviewers will assess the information provided in this section of the application, including 1) the select agent(s) to be used in the proposed research, 2) the registration status of all entities where select agent(s) will be used, 3) the procedures that will be used to monitor possession use and transfer of select agent(s), and 4) plans for appropriate biosafety, biocontainment, and security of the select agent(s).reviewers will comment on whether the following resource sharing plans, or the rationale for not sharing the following types of resources, are reasonable: (1) data sharing plan; (2) sharing model organisms; and (3) genomic data sharing planexamples of resources to share could include, but are not limited to: protocols and methodologies; tools; model organisms; metadata; and human specimens and cell lines.for projects involving key biological and/or chemical resources, reviewers will comment on the brief plans proposed for identifying and ensuring the validity of those resources.reviewers will consider whether the budget and the requested period of support are fully justified and reasonable in relation to the proposed research.applications will be evaluated for scientific and technical merit by (an) appropriate scientific review group(s) convened by nhgri, in accordance with nih peer review policy and procedures, using the stated review criteria. assignment to a scientific review group will be shown in the era commons.as part of the scientific peer review, all applications:applications will be assigned on the basis of established phs referral guidelines to the appropriate nih institute or center. applications will compete for available funds with all other recommended applications submitted in response to this foa. following initial peer review, recommended applications will receive a second level of review by the appropriate national advisory council or board. the following will be considered in making funding decisions:after the peer review of the application is completed, the pd/pi will be able to access his or her summary statement (written critique) via the era commons. refer to part 1 for dates for peer review, advisory council review, and earliest start dateinformation regarding the disposition of applications is available in the nih grants policy statement.if the application is under consideration for funding, nih will request "just-in-time" information from the applicant as described in the nih grants policy statement.a formal notification in the form of a notice of award (noa) will be provided to the applicant organization for successful applications. the noa signed by the grants management officer is the authorizing document and will be sent via email to the recipient’s business official.awardees must comply with any funding restrictions described in section iv.5. funding restrictions. selection of an application for award is not an authorization to begin performance. any costs incurred before receipt of the noa are at the recipient's risk. these costs may be reimbursed only to the extent considered allowable pre-award costs.any application awarded in response to this foa will be subject to terms and conditions found on the award conditions and information for nih grants website. this includes any recent legislation and policy applicable to awards that is highlighted on this website.institutional review board or independent ethics committee approval: recipient institutions must ensure that protocols are reviewed by their irb or iec. to help ensure the safety of participants enrolled in nih-funded studies, the awardee must provide nih copies of documents related to all major changes in the status of ongoing protocolsafter the initial nih peer review of a grant application, program staff will conduct an additional administrative review of the genomic data sharing plan (if applicable) and may negotiate modifications with the prospective awardee to ensure it is consistent with the principles stated above. the final negotiated version of the genomic data sharing plan will become a term and condition of the award of this foa per the nih gds policy.the pd/pi grantees will have the primary responsibility for sharing research results according to the nih genomic data sharing policy, nhgri-specific data sharing expectations, and any other data sharing policy or plan agreed to between the nih and the applicant.all nih grant and cooperative agreement awards include the nih grants policy statement as part of the noa. for these terms of award, see the nih grants policy statement part ii: terms and conditions of nih grant awards, subpart a: general and part ii: terms and conditions of nih grant awards, subpart b: terms and conditions for specific types of grants, recipients, and activities. more information is provided at award conditions and information for nih grants.recipients of federal financial assistance (ffa) from hhs must administer their programs in compliance with federal civil rights laws that prohibit discrimination on the basis of race, color, national origin, disability, age and, in some circumstances, religion, conscience, and sex. this includes ensuring programs are accessible to persons with limited english proficiency. the hhs office for civil rights provides guidance on complying with civil rights laws enforced by hhs. please see https://www.hhs.gov/civil-rights/for-providers/provider-obligations/index.html and http://www.hhs.gov/ocr/civilrights/understanding/section1557/index.html.hhs recognizes that research projects are often limited in scope for many reasons that are nondiscriminatory, such as the principal investigator’s scientific interest, funding limitations, recruitment requirements, and other considerations. thus, criteria in research protocols that target or exclude certain populations are warranted where nondiscriminatory justifications establish that such criteria are appropriate with respect to the health or safety of the subjects, the scientific study design, or the purpose of the research. for additional guidance regarding how the provisions apply to nih grant programs, please contact the scientific/research contact that is identified in section vii under agency contacts of this foa.please contact the hhs office for civil rights for more information about obligations and prohibitions under federal civil rights laws at https://www.hhs.gov/ocr/about-us/contact-us/index.html or call 1-800-368-1019 or tdd 1-800-537-7697.in accordance with the statutory provisions contained in section 872 of the duncan hunter national defense authorization act of fiscal year 2009 (public law 110-417), nih awards will be subject to the federal awardee performance and integrity information system (fapiis) requirements. fapiis requires federal award making officials to review and consider information about an applicant in the designated integrity and performance system (currently fapiis) prior to making an award. an applicant, at its option, may review information in the designated integrity and performance systems accessible through fapiis and comment on any information about itself that a federal agency previously entered and is currently in fapiis. the federal awarding agency will consider any comments by the applicant, in addition to other information in fapiis, in making a judgement about the applicant’s integrity, business ethics, and record of performance under federal awards when completing the review of risk posed by applicants as described in 45 cfr part 75.205 “federal awarding agency review of risk posed by applicants.” this provision will apply to all nih grants and cooperative agreements except fellowships.the office of inspector general hotline accepts tips from all sources about potential fraud, waste, abuse and mismanagement in department of health & human services programs. the reporting individual should indicate that the fraud, waste and/or abuse concerns an sbir/sttr grant or contract, if relevant. report fraud.cooperative agreement terms and conditions of awardnot applicabledata management and sharingnote: the nih policy for data management and sharing is effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023.consistent with the nih policy for data management and sharing, when data management and sharing is applicable to the award, recipients will be required to adhere to the data management and sharing requirements as outlined in the nih grants policy statement (gps). upon the approval of a data management and sharing plan, it is required for recipients to implement the plan as described. sbir and sttr recipients may retain the rights to data generated during the performance of an sbir or sttr award for up to 20 years after the award date, per the small business innovation research (sbir) and small business technology transfer (sttr) program policy directive. an acceptable data management and sharing plan can reference and incorporate these data rights. further information about sbir and sttr data rights are enumerated in the nih gps.nih requires that sbir/sttr recipients submit the following reports within 120 days of the end of the grant budget period unless the recipient is under an extension. when multiple years are involved, awardees will be required to submit the research performance progress report (rppr) annually and financial statements as required in the nih grants policy statement.failure to submit timely final reports may affect future funding to the organization or awards with the same pd/pi.the federal funding accountability and transparency act of 2006 (transparency act), includes a requirement for awardees of federal grants to report information about first-tier subawards and executive compensation under federal assistance awards issued in fy2011 or later. all awardees of applicable nih grants and cooperative agreements are required to report to the federal subaward reporting system (fsrs) available at www.fsrs.gov on all subawards over $25,000. see the nih grants policy statement for additional information on this reporting requirement.in accordance with the regulatory requirements provided at 45 cfr 75.113 and appendix xii to 45 cfr part 75, recipients that have currently active federal grants, cooperative agreements, and procurement contracts from all federal awarding agencies with a cumulative total value greater than $10,000,000 for any period of time during the period of performance of a federal award, must report and maintain the currency of information reported in the system for award management (sam) about civil, criminal, and administrative proceedings in connection with the award or performance of a federal award that reached final disposition within the most recent five-year period. the recipient must also make semiannual disclosures regarding such proceedings. proceedings information will be made publicly available in the designated integrity and performance system (currently fapiis). this is a statutory requirement under section 872 of public law 110-417, as amended (41 u.s.c. 2313). as required by section 3010 of public law 111-212, all information posted in the designated integrity and performance system on or after april 15, 2011, except past performance reviews required for federal procurement contracts, will be publicly available. full reporting requirements and procedures are found in appendix xii to 45 cfr part 75 – award term and conditions for recipient integrity and performance matters.we encourage inquiries concerning this funding opportunity and welcome the opportunity to answer questions from potential applicants.era service desk (questions regarding assist, era commons, application errors and warnings, documenting system problems that threaten submission by the due date, and post-submission issues)finding help online: http://grants.nih.gov/support/ (preferred method of contact) telephone: 301-402-7469 or 866-504-9552 (toll free)general grants information (questions regarding application instructions, application processes, and nih grant resources) email: grantsinfo@nih.gov (preferred method of contact) telephone: 301-637-3015grants.gov customer support (questions regarding grants.gov registration and workspace) contact center telephone: 800-518-4726 email: support@grants.govsba company registry (questions regarding required registration at the sba company registry and for technical questions or issues)website to email: http://sbir.gov/feedback?type=regtemesgen d. fufa, ph.d. national human genome research institute (nhgri) telephone: 301-480-2280 email: temesgen.fufa@nih.govxing-jian lou, ph.d.national cancer institute (nci)telephone: 240-276-5226email: loux@mail.nih.govnatalia kruchinin, ph.d.national institute of allergy and infectious diseases (niaid)telephone: 240-669-2919email: kruchininn@mail.nih.govrudy pozzatti, ph.d.national human genome research institute (nhgri) telephone: 301-402-8739 email: pozzattr@exchange.nih.govzephaun harvey national human genome research institute (nhgri) telephone: 240-669-2992 email: zephaun.harvey@nih.govashley salonational cancer institute (nci)telephone: 240-276-5656email: ashley.salo@nih.govchernay rogersnational institute of allergy and infectious diseases (niaid)telephone: 240-669-2992email: masoncl@mail.nih.govrecently issued trans-nih policy notices may affect your application submission. a full list of policy notices published by nih is provided in the nih guide for grants and contracts. all awards are subject to the terms and conditions, cost principles, and other considerations described in the nih grants policy statement.awards are made under the authorization of sections 301 and 405 of the public health service act as amended (42 usc 241 and 284) and under federal regulations 42 cfr part 52 and 45 cfr part 75.the sbir program is mandated by the small business innovation development act of 1982 (p.l. 97-219), reauthorizing legislation (p.l. 99-443) p.l. 102-564, p.l. 112-81 (sbir/sttr reauthorization act of 2011), as reauthorized and extended under p.l. 114-328, section 1834, , and p.l. 115-232. the basic design of the nih sbir program is in accordance with the small business administration (sba) sbir policy directive.weekly toc for this announcement nih funding opportunities and noticesnote: for help accessing pdf, rtf, ms word, excel, powerpoint, audio or video files, see help downloading files.