Research on Myalgic Encephalomyelitis/Chronic Fatigue Syndrome (ME/CFS) (R21 Clinical Trials Not Allowed)
https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/pa-files/PAR-20-168.html
national institute on alcohol abuse and alcoholism (niaaa)national institute of allergy and infectious diseases (niaid)national institute of arthritis and musculoskeletal and skin diseases (niams)national institute of dental and craniofacial research (nidcr)national institute of environmental health sciences (niehs)national institute of mental health (nimh)all applications to this funding opportunity announcement should fall within the mission of the institutes/centers. the following nih offices may co-fund applications assigned to those institutes/centers.office of behavioral and social sciences research (obssr)newnot-od-23-012 reminder: forms-h grant application forms and instructions must be used for due dates on or after january 25, 2023 - new grant application instructions now available not-od-22-190 - adjustments to nih and ahrq grant application due dates between september 22 and september 30, 2022 october 28, 2021 - reminder: forms-g grant application forms & instructions must be used for due dates on or after january 25, 2022 - new grant application instructions now available. see notice not-od-22-018.september 13, 2021 - updates to the non-discrimination legal requirements for nih recipients. see notice not-od-21-181. august 5, 2021 - new nih "forms-g" grant application forms and instructions coming for due dates on or after january 25, 2022. see notice not-od-21-169.august 5, 2021 - update: notification of upcoming change in federal-wide unique entity identifier requirements. see notice not-od-21-170april 20, 2021 - expanding requirement for era commons ids to all senior/key personnel. see notice not-od-21-109 december 17, 2020 - notice of ncats withdrawal from participation in par-20-168. see notice not-tr-21-014.november 05, 2020 - notice of correction to specific areas of research interest for par-20-168. see notice not-ns-21-013. july 26, 2019- changes to nih requirements regarding proposed human fetal tissue research. see notice not-od-19-128august 23, 2019- clarifying competing application instructions and notice of publication of frequently asked questions (faqs) regarding proposed human fetal tissue research. see notice not-od-19-137par-20-165, r01 research project grant93.853, 93.855, 93.846, 93.350, 93.113, 93.273, 93.121, 93.242, 93.879this funding opportunity announcement (foa) encourages investigator(s)-initiated applications that propose to examine the etiology, diagnosis, pathophysiology and manifestations of myalgic encephalomyelitis/chronic fatigue syndrome (me/cfs) in diverse groups and across the lifespan. applications that address gaps in the understanding of the environmental and biological risk factors, the determinants of heterogeneity among individuals with me/cfs, and the common mechanisms influencing the multiple affected body systems in me/cfs are encouraged. the nih is particularly interested in funding interdisciplinary research that will enhance our knowledge of disease processes and provide evidence-based solutions to improve the diagnosis, treatment, and quality of life of all persons with me/cfs. this interdisciplinary research may include the building of scientific teams to study and develop biomarkers and/or characterize the pathophysiological response of organ systems in individuals with me/cfs. the r21 grant mechanism is intended to support innovative, high impact research projects. such projects would either 1) generate pilot data to assess the feasibility of a novel avenue of investigation; 2) involve high risk experiments that could lead to a breakthrough in me/cfs; 3) demonstrate the feasibility of new technologies that could have a major impact on me/cfs research. applications submitted under this mechanism should be limited to those with the potential for truly ground-breaking impact.april 13, 2020not applicablestandard dates apply.the first standard application due date for this foa is june 1?6?, 2020.all applications are due by 5:00 pm local time of applicant organization. all types of non-aids applications allowed for this funding opportunity announcement are due on the listed date(s).applicants are encouraged to apply early to allow adequate time to make any corrections to errors found in the application during the submission process by the due date.standard dates applystandard dates applystandard dates applyconformance to all requirements (both in the application guide and the foa) is required and strictly enforced. applicants must read and follow all application instructions in the application guide as well as any program-specific instructions noted in section iv. when the program-specific instructions deviate from those in the application guide, follow the program-specific instructions.applications that do not comply with these instructions may be delayed or not accepted for review.there are several options available to submit your application through grants.gov to nih and department of health and human services partners. you must use one of these submission options to access the application forms for this opportunity.the purpose of this funding opportunity announcement (foa) is to stimulate new research on myalgic encephalomyelitis/chronic fatigue syndrome (me/cfs) that will identify etiologies, study pathophysiology and disease manifestations, develop new methods for diagnosis, and/or characterize the heterogeneity seen between individuals with me/cfs.me/cfs is a poorly understood, complex, and chronic disease. people with me/cfs experience a wide range of debilitating symptoms including post-exertional malaise, unrefreshing sleep, joint and muscle pain, and cognitive difficulties. individuals with me/cfs often do not return to pre-disease levels of activity.the cause of me/cfs is unknown. there are no diagnostic tests or fda-approved treatments for the disease. me/cfs affects individuals of all ages as well as all racial, ethnic, and socioeconomic groups. it is estimated that between 1 and 4 million americans suffer from me/cfs and women are four times more likely to be diagnosed than men. at least one quarter of people with me/cfs will be house- or bed-bound at some point during the disease.me/cfs is co-morbid with other chronic conditions including postural orthostatic tachycardia syndrome (pots), ehler’s danlos syndrome (eds), and chronic pain conditions such as temporomandibular joint disease, vulvodynia, endometriosis, fibromyalgia, interstitial cystitis/painful bladder syndrome, chronic prostatitis/chronic pelvic pain syndrome, and irritable bowel disease. the relationship to these other diseases remains to be further elucidated through epidemiological and basic research.a 2015 report by the institute of medicine of the national academy of sciences concluded that me/cfs “is a serious, chronic, complex systemic disease that often can profoundly affect the lives of patients”. research on me/cfs has described underlying biological abnormalities involve many organ systems in individuals with me/cfs compared with healthy controls. abnormalities in the neuroendocrine and autonomic nervous system as well as impaired cognition and abnormal imaging studies indicate that there is both central and peripheral nervous system involvement in me/cfs. metabolomic studies on me/cfs indicate that cellular energy generation is impaired and numerous studies have identified immune system dysfunction.there is significant need for expanded research on me/cfs to identify biomarkers of disease that can be utilized for diagnosis and to measure progression of disease and response to treatment. rigorous research is needed to identify the etiology of the disease and distinguish the etiologies from physiological abnormalities that are secondary consequences of the disease. research on me/cfs clearly demonstrates that it is a very heterogeneous disease, so the development of rigorous protocols to subtype individuals with various and different manifestations of me/cfs and distinguish them from conditions exhibiting overlapping symptoms are needed. current treatments for me/cfs are aimed at symptom management, so a better understanding of the etiology and pathophysiology of me/cfs will provide insight into appropriate treatments for this disease.innovative, rigorous, and well-designed studies are needed to provide a better understanding of me/cfs, prevalence, pathogenesis, and pathophysiology, with the goal of developing improved diagnostic and intervention strategies. investigators are encouraged to account for the heterogeneity of me/cfs in the proposed research including sex, age/developmental stage, racial and ethnic variations, medical history, age of onset of disease, disease severity, as well as length of illness. this foa encourages the integration of basic research with clinical observations in forming study hypotheses. the multisystem nature of the disease will benefit from a collaborative interdisciplinary (across scientific disciplines) team approach that may lead to the insights necessary to provide a foundation for understanding, diagnosing and treating me/cfs.among other issues, investigators are encouraged to consider the following in their applications:areas of interest where scientific opportunities exist to meet the objectives of this funding opportunity cut across many disciplines. applicants are encouraged to review the trans-nih me/cfs website (https://www.nih.gov/mecfs) for information about the nih, resources and tools for grant writing, and other relevant information.proposed research projects should have relevance to the research priorities of the institutes, centers or offices sponsoring this funding announcement. specific considerations are listed below:specific areas of research interestareas of interest where scientific opportunities exist to meet the objectives of this funding opportunity cut across many disciplines. proposed research should have relevance to the research priorities of the institutes, centers or offices sponsoring this funding announcement. specific considerations are listed below:national center for complementary and integrative health (nccih) - nccih will accept applications investigating the mechanisms by which complementary and integrative health approaches may improve me/cfs treatment and/or me/cfs comorbidity management. the proposed research may include basic and mechanistic studies in cellular systems or model organisms, as well as clinical mechanistic studies to develop improved complementary intervention strategies for me/cfs and its associated comorbidities. complementary and integrative approaches may include mind/brain-focused practices (i.e., meditation, hypnosis), body-based approaches (i.e., acupuncture, massage, spinal manipulation), meditative exercise (i.e., yoga, tai chi, qi gong), or natural products (i.e., botanicals, dietary supplements, probiotics), in isolation or in combination with conventional medical treatments. nccih will not fund applications examining clinical efficacy and/or effectiveness through this par.national institute on alcohol abuse and alcoholism (niaaa) -the mission of the national institute on alcohol abuse and alcoholism (niaaa) is to generate and disseminate fundamental knowledge about the effects of alcohol on health and well-being, and apply that knowledge to improve diagnosis, prevention, and treatment of alcohol-related problems, including alcohol use disorder, across the lifespan.national institute of allergy and infectious disease (niaid) - niaid is interested in: 1) studies on the etiology and pathogenesis in me/cfs, including the elucidation of infectious etiology of me/cfs and physiological and genetic host determinants involved in me/cfs manifestations including, but not limited to microbiome-related studies; 2) identification of potential triggers or modifiers of immune responses or immune cell metabolism that contribute to me/cfs; 3) application of current methodologies (e.g., immune phenotyping) or computational modeling to better characterize human immune responses triggered in me/cfs; 4) identification of immune/inflammatory biomarkers in cerebrospinal fluid, blood, urine, etc. that can identify physiologically relevant subgroups of me/cfs; including but not limited to peripheral and immune tissue-based analyses.national institute of environmental health sciences (niehs) - the mission of the national institute of environmental health sciences (niehs) is to discover how the environment affects people to promote healthier lives. the niehs is interested in supporting research projects that address or seek to understand how exposures to toxic environmental insults alter biologic processes and are linked to disease initiation, progression, or morbidity. in addition, niehs is interested in research that leads to the development of prevention and intervention strategies to reduce environmentally induced diseases. examples of environmental exposures relevant to the mission of the niehs include, but are not limited to, industrial chemicals or manufacturing byproducts, e-waste, metals, pesticides, herbicides, and inhaled toxicants including indoor air pollutants from cooking and other sources, climate variability and the environmental impacts of natural and man-made disasters. niehs is interested in exposures throughout life and disease outcomes than manifest throughout the lifespan. early life exposures and their biological consequences are of particular interest and include exposures before and during pregnancy and children’s environmental health outcomes that may arise from these exposures.national institute of mental health (nimh) - nimh supports research to discover the causes of mental illness and to develop more effective and safer interventions. nimh is interested in research on underlying mechanisms and/or relationships between me/cfs and co-morbid psychiatric disorders across the life span. studies that include as goals the determination of safety or clinical efficacy of interventions are outside of the scope of this foa. applicants interested in evaluating treatments for clinical efficacy should apply through one of the foas listed at the nimh clinical trials website, which includes links to the nimh ct faqs. nimh strongly encourages applicants to consult with nimh program officials when developing plans for an application. this early contact will provide an opportunity to clarify nimh policies and guidelines and identify whether the proposed project is consistent with nimh program priorities, and to determine which available foa would best support the proposed research. this is particularly important if there is doubt as to whether or not the submission is determined to be an nih-defined clinical trial, and if found to be a clinical trial, whether it is a mechanistic study as described by nimh.national institute of neurological disorders and stroke (ninds) - ninds is interested in research on me/cfs across the lifespan that includes, but is not limited to: 1) studies on the etiology and pathogenesis of symptoms in me/cfs impacting the central, autonomic and peripheral nervous systems; 2) development of new model systems (both in vitro and in vivo) to study the pathophysiology of me/cfs and its impact on the nervous system; and 3) human imaging studies to elucidate changes in the cns in individuals with me/cfs. research on biomarker development or validation relevant to the ninds mission should utilize the relevant ninds foasoffice of behavioral and social sciences research (obssr) - obssr is interested in research aimed at understanding the psychosocial factors that impact individuals diagnosed with me/cfs, especially those factors that may impact diagnosis, disease progression, and treatment.by using the r21 mechanism, the nih seeks to foster the introduction of novel scientific ideas, model systems, tools, agents, targets, and technologies that have the potential to substantially advance biomedical research on me/cfs. the r21 mechanism is intended to encourage new exploratory and developmental research projects. projects could assess the feasibility of a novel area of investigation or a new experimental system or technology that has the potential to enhance health-related research. projects could also include the unique and innovative use of an existing methodology or technology to explore a new scientific area. these studies may involve considerable risk but may lead to a breakthrough in a particular area, or to the development of novel biomedical, behavioral, or clinical research. applications submitted under this mechanism should be exploratory and novel, and should break new ground or extend previous discoveries toward new directions or applications.grant: a support mechanism providing money, property, or both to an eligible entity to carry out an approved project or activity.the oer glossary and the sf424 (r&r) application guide provide details on these application types. only those application types listed here are allowed for this foa.need help determining whether you are doing a clinical trial?the number of awards is contingent upon nih appropriations and the submission of a sufficient number of meritorious applications.the maximum project period is two (2) years.higher education institutionsthe following types of higher education institutions are always encouraged to apply for nih support as public or private institutions of higher education:nonprofits other than institutions of higher educationfor-profit organizationsgovernmentsnon-domestic (non-u.s.) entities (foreign institutions) are eligible to apply.non-domestic (non-u.s.) components of u.s. organizations are eligible to apply.foreign components, as defined in the nih grants policy statement, are allowed.applicant organizationsapplicant organizations must complete and maintain the following registrations as described in the sf 424 (r&r) application guide to be eligible to apply for or receive an award. all registrations must be completed prior to the application being submitted. registration can take 6 weeks or more, so applicants should begin the registration process as soon as possible. the nih policy on late submission of grant applications states that failure to complete registrations in advance of a due date is not a valid reason for a late submission.program directors/principal investigators (pd(s)/pi(s))all pd(s)/pi(s) must have an era commons account. pd(s)/pi(s) should work with their organizational officials to either create a new account or to affiliate their existing account with the applicant organization in era commons. if the pd/pi is also the organizational signing official, they must have two distinct era commons accounts, one for each role. obtaining an era commons account can take up to 2 weeks.for institutions/organizations proposing multiple pds/pis, visit the multiple program director/principal investigator policy and submission details in the senior/key person profile (expanded) component of the sf424 (r&r) application guide.this foa does not require cost sharing as defined in the nih grants policy statement. number of applicationsthe nih will not accept duplicate or highly overlapping applications under review at the same time. this means that the nih will not accept:the application forms package specific to this opportunity must be accessed through assist, grants.gov workspace or an institutional system-to-system solution. links to apply using assist or grants.gov workspace are available in part 1 of this foa. see your administrative office for instructions if you plan to use an institutional system-to-system solution.note: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023, the data management and sharing (dms) plan will be attached in the other plan(s) attachment in forms-h and subsequent application forms packages. for due dates on or before january 24, 2023, the data sharing plan and genomic data sharing plan gds) will continue to be attached in the resource sharing plan attachment in forms-g application forms packages.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.other plan(s):note: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023, the data management and sharing plan will be attached in the other plan(s) attachment in forms-h and subsequent application forms packages. for due dates on or before january 24, 2023, the data sharing plan and genomic data sharing plan gds) will continue to be attached in the resource sharing plan attachment in forms-g application forms packages.all applicants planning research (funded or conducted in whole or in part by nih) that results in the generation of scientific data are required to comply with the instructions for the data management and sharing plan. all applications, regardless of the amount of direct costs requested for any one year, must address a data management and sharing plan.the following modifications also apply:if you answered “yes” to the question “are human subjects involved?” on the r&r other project information form, you must include at least one human subjects study record using the study record: phs human subjects and clinical trials information form or delayed onset study record.study record: phs human subjects and clinical trials informationall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.note: delayed onset does not apply to a study that can be described but will not start immediately (i.e., delayed start).all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.foreign (non-u.s.) institutions must follow policies described in the nih grants policy statement, and procedures for foreign institutions described throughout the sf424 (r&r) application guide.see part 1. section iii.1 for information regarding the requirement for obtaining a unique entity identifier and for completing and maintaining active registrations in system for award management (sam), nato commercial and government entity (ncage) code (if applicable), era commons, and grants.govpart i. overview information contains information about key dates and times. applicants are encouraged to submit applications before the due date to ensure they have time to make any application corrections that might be necessary for successful submission. when a submission date falls on a weekend or federal holiday, the application deadline is automatically extended to the next business day.organizations must submit applications to grants.gov (the online portal to find and apply for grants across all federal agencies). applicants must then complete the submission process by tracking the status of the application in the era commons, nih’s electronic system for grants administration. nih and grants.gov systems check the application against many of the application instructions upon submission. errors must be corrected and a changed/corrected application must be submitted to grants.gov on or before the application due date and time. if a changed/corrected application is submitted after the deadline, the application will be considered late. applications that miss the due date and time are subjected to the nih policy on late application submission.applicants are responsible for viewing their application before the due date in the era commons to ensure accurate and successful submission.information on the submission process and a definition of on-time submission are provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.this initiative is not subject to intergovernmental review.all nih awards are subject to the terms and conditions, cost principles, and other considerations described in the nih grants policy statement.pre-award costs are allowable only as described in the nih grants policy statement.applications must be submitted electronically following the instructions described in the sf424 (r&r) application guide. paper applications will not be accepted.applicants must complete all required registrations before the application due date. section iii. eligibility information contains information about registration.for assistance with your electronic application or for more information on the electronic submission process, visit how to apply – application guide. if you encounter a system issue beyond your control that threatens your ability to complete the submission process on-time, you must follow the dealing with system issues guidance. for assistance with application submission, contact the application submission contacts in section vii.important reminders:all pd(s)/pi(s) must include their era commons id in the credential field of the senior/key person profile component of the sf424(r&r) application package. failure to register in the commons and to include a valid pd/pi commons id in the credential field will prevent the successful submission of an electronic application to nih. see section iii of this foa for information on registration requirements.the applicant organization must ensure that the duns number it provides on the application is the same number used in the organization’s profile in the era commons and for the system for award management. additional information may be found in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.see more tips for avoiding common errors.upon receipt, applications will be evaluated for completeness and compliance with application instructions by the center for scientific review, nih. applications that are incomplete or non-compliant will not be reviewed.use of common data elements in nih-funded researchmany nih ics encourage the use of common data elements (cdes) in basic, clinical, and applied research, patient registries, and other human subject research to facilitate broader and more effective use of data and advance research across studies. cdes are data elements that have been identified and defined for use in multiple data sets across different studies. use of cdes can facilitate data sharing and standardization to improve data quality and enable data integration from multiple studies and sources, including electronic health records. ninds has identified cdes for many clinical neurological/neuromuscular diseases and types of outcomes (e.g., patient-reported outcomes). ninds provides resources for cdes (https://www.commondataelements.ninds.nih.gov/#page=default) to assist investigators in developing protocols, case report forms, and other instruments for data collection. investigators are encouraged to consult the ninds cde website and describe in their applications any use they will make of these cdes in their projects.note: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023, the data sharing plan and genomic data sharing plan (gds) as part of the resource sharing plan will not be evaluated at time of review.only the review criteria described below will be considered in the review process. applications submitted to the nih in support of the nih mission are evaluated for scientific and technical merit through the nih peer review system.the r21 exploratory/developmental grant supports investigation of novel scientific ideas or new model systems, tools, or technologies that have the potential for significant impact on biomedical or biobehavioral research. an r21 grant application need not have extensive background material or preliminary information. accordingly, reviewers will emphasize the conceptual framework, the level of innovation, and the potential to significantly advance our knowledge or understanding. appropriate justification for the proposed work can be provided through literature citations, data from other sources, or, when available, from investigator-generated data. preliminary data are not required for r21 applications; however, they may be included if available.reviewers will consider how the proposed research addresses novel and innovative research that will break new ground or extend previous discoveries toward new directions. significancedoes the project address an important problem or a critical barrier to progress in the field? is the prior research that serves as the key support for the proposed project rigorous? if the aims of the project are achieved, how will scientific knowledge, technical capability, and/or clinical practice be improved? how will successful completion of the aims change the concepts, methods, technologies, treatments, services, or preventative interventions that drive this field? investigator(s)are the pd(s)/pi(s), collaborators, and other researchers well suited to the project? if early stage investigators or those in the early stages of independent careers, do they have appropriate experience and training? if established, have they demonstrated an ongoing record of accomplishments that have advanced their field(s)? if the project is collaborative or multi-pd/pi, do the investigators have complementary and integrated expertise; are their leadership approach, governance and organizational structure appropriate for the project? innovationdoes the application challenge and seek to shift current research or clinical practice paradigms by utilizing novel theoretical concepts, approaches or methodologies, instrumentation, or interventions? are the concepts, approaches or methodologies, instrumentation, or interventions novel to one field of research or novel in a broad sense? is a refinement, improvement, or new application of theoretical concepts, approaches or methodologies, instrumentation, or interventions proposed? approachare the overall strategy, methodology, and analyses well-reasoned and appropriate to accomplish the specific aims of the project? have the investigators included plans to address weaknesses in the rigor of prior research that serves as the key support for the proposed project? have the investigators presented strategies to ensure a robust and unbiased approach, as appropriate for the work proposed? are potential problems, alternative strategies, and benchmarks for success presented? if the project is in the early stages of development, will the strategy establish feasibility and will particularly risky aspects be managed? have the investigators presented adequate plans to address relevant biological variables, such as sex, for studies in vertebrate animals or human subjects?if the project involves human subjects and/or nih-defined clinical research, are the plans to address 1) the protection of human subjects from research risks, and 2) inclusion (or exclusion) of individuals on the basis of sex/gender, race, and ethnicity, as well as the inclusion or exclusion of individuals of all ages (including children and older adults), justified in terms of the scientific goals and research strategy proposed? environmentwill the scientific environment in which the work will be done contribute to the probability of success? are the institutional support, equipment and other physical resources available to the investigators adequate for the project proposed? will the project benefit from unique features of the scientific environment, subject populations, or collaborative arrangements? protections for human subjectsfor research that involves human subjects but does not involve one of thecategories of research that are exempt under 45 cfr part 46, the committee will evaluate the justification for involvement of human subjects and the proposed protections from research risk relating to their participation according to the following five review criteria: 1) risk to subjects, 2) adequacy of protection against risks, 3) potential benefits to the subjects and others, 4) importance of the knowledge to be gained, and 5) data and safety monitoring for clinical trials.for research that involves human subjects and meets the criteria for one or more of the categories of research that are exempt under 45 cfr part 46, the committee will evaluate: 1) the justification for the exemption, 2) human subjects involvement and characteristics, and 3) sources of materials. for additional information on review of the human subjects section, please refer to the guidelines for the review of human subjects. inclusion of women, minorities, and individuals across the lifespanwhen the proposed project involves human subjects and/or nih-defined clinical research, the committee will evaluate the proposed plans for the inclusion (or exclusion) of individuals on the basis of sex/gender, race, and ethnicity, as well as the inclusion (or exclusion) of individuals of all ages (including children and older adults) to determine if it is justified in terms of the scientific goals and research strategy proposed. for additional information on review of the inclusion section, please refer to the guidelines for the review of inclusion in clinical research. vertebrate animalsthe committee will evaluate the involvement of live vertebrate animals as part of the scientific assessment according to the following criteria: (1) description of proposed procedures involving animals, including species, strains, ages, sex, and total number to be used; (2) justifications for the use of animals versus alternative models and for the appropriateness of the species proposed; (3) interventions to minimize discomfort, distress, pain and injury; and (4) justification for euthanasia method if not consistent with the avma guidelines for the euthanasia of animals. reviewers will assess the use of chimpanzees as they would any other application proposing the use of vertebrate animals. for additional information on review of the vertebrate animals section, please refer to the worksheet for review of the vertebrate animal section. biohazardsreviewers will assess whether materials or procedures proposed are potentially hazardous to research personnel and/or the environment, and if needed, determine whether adequate protection is proposed. resubmissionsfor resubmissions, the committee will evaluate the application as now presented, taking into consideration the responses to comments from the previous scientific review group and changes made to the project. renewalsnot applicable. revisionsfor revisions, the committee will consider the appropriateness of the proposed expansion of the scope of the project. if the revision application relates to a specific line of investigation presented in the original application that was not recommended for approval by the committee, then the committee will consider whether the responses to comments from the previous scientific review group are adequate and whether substantial changes are clearly evident.note: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023, the data sharing plan and genomic data sharing plan (gds) as part of the resource sharing plan will not be evaluated at time of review. applications from foreign organizationsreviewers will assess whether the project presents special opportunities for furthering research programs through the use of unusual talent, resources, populations, or environmental conditions that exist in other countries and either are not readily available in the united states or augment existing u.s. resources. select agent researchreviewers will assess the information provided in this section of the application, including 1) the select agent(s) to be used in the proposed research, 2) the registration status of all entities where select agent(s) will be used, 3) the procedures that will be used to monitor possession use and transfer of select agent(s), and 4) plans for appropriate biosafety, biocontainment, and security of the select agent(s). resource sharing plansreviewers will comment on whether the following resource sharing plans, or the rationale for not sharing the following types of resources, are reasonable: (1) data sharing plan; (2) sharing model organisms; and (3) genomic data sharing plan (gds). authentication of key biological and/or chemical resources:for projects involving key biological and/or chemical resources, reviewers will comment on the brief plans proposed for identifying and ensuring the validity of those resources. budget and period of supportreviewers will consider whether the budget and the requested period of support are fully justified and reasonable in relation to the proposed research.applications will be evaluated for scientific and technical merit by (an) appropriate scientific review group(s), convened by the center for scientific review in accordance with nih peer review policy and procedures, using the stated review criteria. assignment to a scientific review group convened by the center for scientific review will be shown in the era commons.information regarding the disposition of applications is available in the nih grants policy statement.a formal notification in the form of a notice of award (noa) will be provided to the applicant organization for successful applications. the noa signed by the grants management officer is the authorizing document and will be sent via email to the grantee’s business official.awardees must comply with any funding restrictions described in section iv.5. funding restrictions. selection of an application for award is not an authorization to begin performance. any costs incurred before receipt of the noa are at the recipient's risk. these costs may be reimbursed only to the extent considered allowable pre-award costs.any application awarded in response to this foa will be subject to terms and conditions found on the award conditions and information for nih grants website. this includes any recent legislation and policy applicable to awards that is highlighted on this website.recipients of federal financial assistance (ffa) from hhs must administer their programs in compliance with federal civil rights law. this means that recipients of hhs funds must ensure equal access to their programs without regard to a person’s race, color, national origin, disability, age and, in some circumstances, sex and religion. this includes ensuring your programs are accessible to persons with limited english proficiency. hhs recognizes that research projects are often limited in scope for many reasons that are nondiscriminatory, such as the principal investigator’s scientific interest, funding limitations, recruitment requirements, and other considerations. thus, criteria in research protocols that target or exclude certain populations are warranted where nondiscriminatory justifications establish that such criteria are appropriate with respect to the health or safety of the subjects, the scientific study design, or the purpose of the research.in accordance with the statutory provisions contained in section 872 of the duncan hunter national defense authorization act of fiscal year 2009 (public law 110-417), nih awards will be subject to the federal awardee performance and integrity information system (fapiis) requirements. fapiis requires federal award making officials to review and consider information about an applicant in the designated integrity and performance system (currently fapiis) prior to making an award. an applicant, at its option, may review information in the designated integrity and performance systems accessible through fapiis and comment on any information about itself that a federal agency previously entered and is currently in fapiis. the federal awarding agency will consider any comments by the applicant, in addition to other information in fapiis, in making a judgement about the applicant’s integrity, business ethics, and record of performance under federal awards when completing the review of risk posed by applicants as described in 45 cfr part 75.205 “federal awarding agency review of risk posed by applicants.” this provision will apply to all nih grants and cooperative agreements except fellowships.for additional guidance regarding how the provisions apply to nih grant programs, please contact the scientific/research contact that is identified in section vii under agency contacts of this foa. hhs provides general guidance to recipients of ffa on meeting their legal obligation to take reasonable steps to provide meaningful access to their programs by persons with limited english proficiency. please see https://www.hhs.gov/civil-rights/for-individuals/special-topics/limited-english-proficiency/index.html. the hhs office for civil rights also provides guidance on complying with civil rights laws enforced by hhs. please see https://www.hhs.gov/civil-rights/for-individuals/section-1557/index.htmlhttps://www.hhs.gov/civil-rights/for-providers/laws-regulations-guidance/index.html. recipients of ffa also have specific legal obligations for serving qualified individuals with disabilities. please see https://www.hhs.gov/civil-rights/for-individuals/disability/index.html. please contact the hhs office for civil rights for more information about obligations and prohibitions under federal civil rights laws at https://www.hhs.gov/ocr/about-us/contact-us/index.htmlor call 1-800-368-1019 or tdd 1-800-537-7697. also note it is an hhs departmental goal to ensure access to quality, culturally competent care, including long-term services and supports, for vulnerable populations. for further guidance on providing culturally and linguistically appropriate services, recipients should review the national standards for culturally and linguistically appropriate services in health and health care at http://minorityhealth.hhs.gov/omh/browse.aspx?lvl=2&lvlid=53.data management and sharingnote: the nih policy for data management and sharing is effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023.consistent with the nih policy for data management and sharing, when data management and sharing is applicable to the award, recipients will be required to adhere to the data management and sharing requirements as outlined in the nih grants policy statement. upon the approval of a data management and sharing plan, it is required for recipients to implement the plan as described.the federal funding accountability and transparency act of 2006 (transparency act), includes a requirement for awardees of federal grants to report information about first-tier subawards and executive compensation under federal assistance awards issued in fy2011 or later. all awardees of applicable nih grants and cooperative agreementsare required to report to the federal subaward reporting system (fsrs) available at www.fsrs.gov on all subawards over $25,000. see the nih grants policy statement for additional information on this reporting requirement.in accordance with the regulatory requirements provided at 45 cfr 75.113 and appendix xii to 45 cfr part 75, recipients that have currently active federal grants, cooperative agreements, and procurement contracts from all federal awarding agencies with a cumulative total value greater than $10,000,000 for any period of time during the period of performance of a federal award, must report and maintain the currency of information reported in the system for award management (sam)about civil, criminal, and administrative proceedings in connection with the award or performance of a federal award that reached final disposition within the most recent five-year period. the recipient must also make semiannual disclosures regarding such proceedings.proceedings information will be made publicly available in the designated integrity and performance system (currently fapiis). this is a statutory requirement under section 872 of public law 110-417, as amended (41 u.s.c. 2313). as required by section 3010 of public law 111-212, all information posted in the designated integrity and performance system on or after april 15, 2011, except past performance reviews required for federal procurement contracts, will be publicly available. full reporting requirements and procedures are found in appendix xii to 45 cfr part 75 – award term and conditions for recipient integrity and performance matters.finding help online:http://grants.nih.gov/support/(preferred method of contact) telephone: 301-402-7469 or 866-504-9552 (toll free)general grants information (questions regarding application instructions, application processes, and nih grant resources) email:grantsinfo@nih.gov(preferred method of contact) telephone: 301-637-3015grants.gov customer support(questions regarding grants.gov registration and workspace) contact center telephone: 800-518-4726 email:support@grants.govvicky whittemore, phd national institute of neurological disorders and stroke (ninds) telephone: 301-496-1917 email: vicky.whittemore@nih.govkathy jung, ph.d. national institute for alcohol abuse and alcoholism (niaaa) telephone: 301-443-8744 email: jungma@mail.nih.govjoseph breen, ph.d. national institute of allergy and infectious disease (niaid) telephone: 240-292-4123 email: jbreen@niaid.nih.govyan wang, m.d., ph.d. national institute of arthritis and musculoskeletal and skin diseases (niams) telephone: (301) 594-5032 email: wangy1@mail.nih.govmelissa ghim, phd national institute of dental and craniofacial research (nidcr) telephone: 301-496-7853 email: melissa.ghim@nih.govjonathan hollander, ph.d. national institute of environmental health sciences (niehs) telephone: 984-287-3269 email: jonathan.hollander@nih.govmichael humble, ph.d. national institute of environmental health sciences (niehs) telephone: 984-287-3272 email: humble@niehs.nih.govmi hillefors, md, phd national institute of mental health (nimh) telephone: 301-443-2738 email: mi.hillefors@nih.govdana schloesser, ph.d. office of behavioral and social sciences research (obssr) telephone: 301-451-3975 email: dana.schloesser@nih.govmi hillefors, md, phd national institute of mental health (nimh) telephone:301-443-2738 email: mi.hillefors@nih.govalexei kondratyev, ph.d. center for scientific review (csr) phone: 301-435-1785 email: alexei.kondratyev@nih.govchief grants management officer national institute of neurological disorders and stroke (ninds) email: chiefgrantsmanagementofficer@ninds.nih.govjudy fox national institute for alcohol abuse and alcoholism (niaaa) telephone: 301-443-4701 email: jfox@mail.nih.govdonna sullivan national institute of allergy and infectious diseases (niaid) telephone: 240-669-2979 email: dsullivan@niaid.nih.govjamie m. thompson national institute of arthritis and musculoskeletal and skin diseases (niams) telephone: 301-594-3614 email: thompsonja@mail.nih.govdiana rutberg, m.b.a. national institute of dental and craniofacial research (nidcr) telephone: 301-564-4798 email: rutbergd@mail.nih.govbarbara gittleman, m.a. national institute of environmental health sciences (niehs) telephone: 984-287-3261 email: barbara.gittleman@nih.govrita sisco national institute of mental health (nimh) telephone: 301-443-2805 email: siscor@mail.nih.govtamara kees national institute of mental health (nimh) telephone:301-443-8811 email: tamara.kees@nih.gov weekly toc for this announcement nih funding opportunities and noticesnote: for help accessing pdf, rtf, ms word, excel, powerpoint, audio or video files, see help downloading files.