Toward Translation of Nanotechnology Cancer Interventions (TTNCI) (R01 Clinical Trial Not Allowed)
https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/pa-files/PAR-22-071.html
national institutes of health (nih)national cancer institute (nci)r01 research project grantnot-od-23-012 reminder: forms-h grant application forms and instructions must be used for due dates on or after january 25, 2023 - new grant application instructions now availablenot-od-22-190 - adjustments to nih and ahrq grant application due dates between september 22 and september 30, 2022october 28, 2021 - reminder: forms-g grant application forms & instructions must be used for due dates on or after january 25, 2022 - new grant application instructions now available. see notice not-od-22-018. september 13, 2021 - updates to the non-discrimination legal requirements for nih recipients. see notice not-od-21-181. august 5, 2021 - new nih "forms-g" grant application forms and instructions coming for due dates on or after january 25, 2022. see notice not-od-21-169 august 5, 2021 - update: notification of upcoming change in federal-wide unique entity identifier requirements. see notice not-od-21-170 april 20, 2021 - expanding requirement for era commons ids to all senior/key personnel. see notice not-od-21-109see section iii. 3. additional information on eligibility.this funding opportunity announcement (foa), entitled "toward translation of cancer nanotechnology interventions (ttnci)" is designed to enable the translation of nanotechnology-based cancer interventions relying on nanoparticle formulations and/or nano-devices. the ttnci initiative encourages applications for advanced pre-clinical research, supporting translation of nanotechnology-based cancer diagnostics and therapeutics. ttnci awards are expected to mature experimental nanomedicines designed for highly relevant cancer clinical objectives with a strong potential to improve cancer treatment effectiveness. it is expected that improvement of treatment effectiveness will occur due to the combination of nanoparticle/nano-device structural design and/or therapeutic/diagnostic cargo which is delivered. ttnci awards are expected to enable further development of proposed nanotechnology-based interventions to the stage in which they could continue on a developmental path towards the nci experimental therapeutics (next) and other nci translational programs.not applicableall applications are due by 5:00 pm local time of applicant organization. all types of non-aids applications allowed for this funding opportunity announcement are due on the listed date(s).applicants are encouraged to apply early to allow adequate time to make any corrections to errors found in the application during the submission process by the due date.not applicableit is critical that applicants follow the instructions in the research (r) instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide,except where instructed to do otherwise (in this foa or in a notice from nih guide for grants and contracts ).conformance to all requirements (both in the application guide and the foa) is required and strictly enforced. applicants must read and follow all application instructions in the application guide as well as any program-specific instructions noted in section iv. when the program-specific instructions deviate from those in the application guide, follow the program-specific instructions.applications that do not comply with these instructions may be delayed or not accepted for review.there are several options available to submit your application through grants.gov to nih and department of health and human services partners. you must use one of these submission options to access the application forms for this opportunity.purposethe purpose of this funding opportunity announcement (foa) entitled "toward translation of cancer nanotechnology interventions (ttnci)" is to enable the translation of nanotechnology-based cancer interventions relying on nanoparticle formulations and/or nano-devices. successful ttnci projects will mature nanotechnology-based interventions that are designed for highly relevant cancer clinical objectives and address unmet clinical need. the projects should possess a strong potential to improve cancer diagnosis and/or treatment efficacy due to the combination of nanoparticle/nano-device structural design and/or therapeutic/diagnostic cargo which is delivered. the outcomes of ttnci-supported projects should aid the development of mature nanotechnology interventions with efficacy exceeding the current standard of care for a given cancer indication. it is expected that successful ttnci-supported projects, upon their completion, can qualify for good manufacturing practice (gmp) materials synthesis and/or device fabrication and good laboratory practice (glp) and successfully compete for nci experimental therapeutics (next) program and other nci translational programs to continue a path towards the clinic. projects supported by the ttnci initiative will incorporate multi-disciplinary research in biology/oncology, chemistry, physics, and/or engineering and should rely on multidisciplinary leadership with one or more leading investigators having a pertinent clinical expertise.nanotechnology in the context of this foa. to be appropriate for this foa, the proposed nanotechnology approaches, materials, devices, and technologies should meet the following criteria:nanoparticles and nano-devices that are/were in clinical trials. for nanoparticle constructs or nano-devices that are already in clinical trials, the proposed ttnci project should involve a different cancer indication and/or different interventional approach than one investigated under the current/prior clinical trial.backgroundpotential of nanotechnology-based cancer interventions. significant progress has been made in the synthesis and characterization of engineered nanoparticles and nano-devices for diagnosis and treatment of cancers and many cancer nanotechnology strategies have already moved into clinical trials and obtained fda approval. the early development of nanomedicines has been conservative, selecting well-established nanoparticle constructs (i.e. liposomes) and combining them with fda-approved small molecule drugs. currently, efforts to encapsulate two or more drugs into one nanoparticle for their synergistic action as well as the use of other apis such as nucleic acids, peptides, and antibodies are also being investigated. in parallel, materials scientists are studying a wide range of nanoparticle designs, possessing various mechanical, magnetic, optical, and biochemical properties. such particles could perform not only as cargo (api) delivery vehicles, but also can contribute to improving treatment efficacy due to their material properties and structural design. similarly, diagnostic strategies relying on in vivo imaging nanoparticles or in vitro nano-devices are being used for early disease detection, surgery assistance, and patient stratification to enhance treatment outcomes. overall, these novel nanoparticle and nano-device designs combined with innovative therapeutic and diagnostic strategies have the potential to improve the effectiveness of nanotechnology interventions and integrate them into mainstream cancer care.nci has been supporting the development of nanotechnology for cancer using a multitude of funding mechanisms (http://nano.cancer.gov). the information on general areas of research interests and status of these activities, can be found in the following documents:the research community recognizes the importance of further support for translation of nanotechnology-based interventions and expects that, in the future, nanotechnology will become a significant part of clinical oncology.research objectives for ttnci awardsgeneral expectations for ttnci projects. ttnci awards are expected to produce advances in translational readiness of nanotechnology-based cancer interventions designed for highly relevant cancer clinical objectives. significant advances are expected to be achieved in the overall capacity for employing these interventions as clinically viable cancer diagnostics and/or therapeutics. each proposed ttnci project is expected to focus within one or more of three selected areas: 1) combination therapy, 2) immunotherapy, and 3) imaging and diagnostics. ??by the end of the ttnci project, funded technologies should mature sufficiently to qualify for gmp materials synthesis and/or device fabrication and glp evaluation studies and be well-positioned to compete for nci translational programs including the next program.due to translational nature of ttnci initiative, the innovative use of nanotechnology to address relevant cancer clinical objective is viewed as more significant than innovation in nanotechnology itself (e.g., development of new nanomaterials). projects supported by the ttnci initiative should incorporate multidisciplinary leadership with one or more leading investigators having a pertinent clinical expertise needed for the project. the proposed projects should also contain milestones to facilitate progress tracking.possible research directions. examples of appropriate research areas are listed below. these examples are not meant to be comprehensive. additional research foci are also encouraged, providing they are consistent with the general expectations stated above. for further details, see section iv.2. content and form of application submission.research priorities of the proposed program were selected based on clinical challenges where nanotechnology has displayed a unique potential solution, as compared to other contemporary approaches. these priority areas include: 1) combination therapy, 2) immunotherapy, and 3) imaging and diagnostics.combination therapyimmunotherapyimaging and diagnosticstumor types. all ttnci applicants are expected to concentrate their proposed efforts on one or two rationally selected tumor types. for this foa, a "tumor type" refers to either tumors of a specific tissue of origin or tumors with critical abnormalities in a particular molecular pathway(s) shared in cancers arising from a variety of tissues.annual principal investigators' meetingnci holds an annual meeting of investigators funded through institute's nanotechnology programs with the purpose of sharing research progress and establishing collaborations. all investigators supported by this foa are expected to attend this two-day meeting organized by nci each year.additional available resourcesapplicants are encouraged to consider using, as appropriate, various relevant nci-supported resources described below.non-responsive applicationsthis foa will not support projects that:see section viii. other information for award authorities and regulations.grant: a support mechanism providing money, property, or both to an eligible entity to carry out an approved project or activity.the oer glossary and the sf424 (r&r) application guide provide details on these application types. only those application types listed here are allowed for this foa.the oer glossary and the sf424 (r&r) application guide provide details on these application types. only those application types listed here are allowed for this foa.not allowed: only accepting applications that do not propose clinical trials.need help determining whether you are doing a clinical trial?need help determining whether you are doing a clinical trial?the number of awards is contingent upon nih appropriations and the submission of a sufficient number of meritorious applications.application budgets are limited to $475,000 in direct costs per year and need to reflect the actual needs of the proposed projectthe maximum project period is 4 years.nih grants policies as described in the nih grants policy statement will apply to the applications submitted and awards made from this foa.1. eligible applicantshigher education institutionsthe following types of higher education institutions are always encouraged to apply for nih support as public or private institutions of higher education:nonprofits other than institutions of higher educationfor-profit organizationslocal governmentsfederal governmentsothernon-domestic (non-u.s.) entities (foreign institutions) are not eligible to apply.non-domestic (non-u.s.) components of u.s. organizations are not eligible to apply.foreign components, as defined in the nih grants policy statement, are allowed.applicant organizationsapplicant organizations must complete and maintain the following registrations as described in the sf 424 (r&r) application guide to be eligible to apply for or receive an award. all registrations must be completed prior to the application being submitted. registration can take 6 weeks or more, so applicants should begin the registration process as soon as possible. the nih policy on late submission of grant applications states that failure to complete registrations in advance of a due date is not a valid reason for a late submission.program directors/principal investigators (pd(s)/pi(s))all pd(s)/pi(s) must have an era commons account. pd(s)/pi(s) should work with their organizational officials to either create a new account or to affiliate their existing account with the applicant organization in era commons. if the pd/pi is also the organizational signing official, they must have two distinct era commons accounts, one for each role. obtaining an era commons account can take up to 2 weeks.any individual(s) with the skills, knowledge, and resources necessary to carry out the proposed research as the program director(s)/principal investigator(s) (pd(s)/pi(s)) is invited to work with his/her organization to develop an application for support. individuals from underrepresented racial and ethnic groups as well as individuals with disabilities are always encouraged to apply for nih support.for institutions/organizations proposing multiple pds/pis, visit the multiple program director/principal investigator policy and submission details in the senior/key person profile (expanded) component of the sf424 (r&r) application guide.2. cost sharingthis foa does not require cost sharing as defined in the nih grants policy statement.3. additional information on eligibilitynumber of applicationsapplicant organizations may submit more than one application, provided that each application is scientifically distinct.the nih will not accept duplicate or highly overlapping applications under review at the same time, per 2.3.7.4 submission of resubmission application. this means that the nih will not accept:1. requesting an application packagethe application forms package specific to this opportunity must be accessed through assist, grants.gov workspace or an institutional system-to-system solution. links to apply using assist or grants.gov workspace are available in part 1 of this foa. see your administrative office for instructions if you plan to use an institutional system-to-system solution.2. content and form of application submissionpage limitationsall page limitations described in the sf424 application guide and the table of page limits must be followed.instructions for application submissionnote: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023, the data management and sharing (dms) plan will be attached in the other plan(s) attachment in forms-h and subsequent application forms packages. for due dates on or before january 24, 2023, the data sharing plan and genomic data sharing plan gds) will continue to be attached in the resource sharing plan attachment in forms-g application forms packages.the following section supplements the instructions found in the sf424 (r&r) application guide and should be used for preparing an application to this foa.sf424(r&r) coverall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.sf424(r&r) project/performance site locationsall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.sf424(r&r) other project informationall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.facilities and other resources:sf424(r&r) senior/key person profileall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.r&r or modular budgetall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.r&r subaward budgetall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.phs 398 cover page supplementall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.phs 398 research planother plan(s):note: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023, the data management and sharing plan will be attached in the other plan(s) attachment in forms-h and subsequent application forms packages. for due dates on or before january 24, 2023, the data sharing plan and genomic data sharing plan gds) will continue to be attached in the resource sharing plan attachment in forms-g application forms packages.all applicants planning research (funded or conducted in whole or in part by nih) that results in the generation of scientific data are required to comply with the instructions for the data management and sharing plan. all applications, regardless of the amount of direct costs requested for any one year, must address a data management and sharing plan.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed, with the following additional instructions:specific aims: outline the specific goals of the project.research strategy: the proposed project description must consist of the standard sub-sections: significance, innovation, and approach and an additional "milestones" sub-section (described below).significanceproject scope and emphasis. the proposed project should describe advanced pre-clinical development of nanotechnology-based cancer intervention which is designed for highly relevant cancer clinical objective and demonstrates strong potential for improving treatment and/or diagnosis effectiveness. these treatment improvements are expected to occur due to the combination of nanoparticle/nano-device structural design and/or therapeutic/diagnostic cargo which is delivered. the rationale for the clinical potential of described nanotechnology-based strategy should be clearly described in the project.innovationin the innovation sub-section, provide a comparison of the proposed nanotechnology-based intervention to available or possible classical approaches and/or currently used nanotechnology solutions. discuss the potential advantage of the proposed approach and provide data supporting this advantage. due to translational nature of ttnci initiative, the innovative use of nanotechnology to address relevant cancer clinical objective is viewed as more significant than innovation in nanotechnology itself (e.g., development of new nanomaterials).approachin the approach sub-section, provide information pertaining to the following requirements.1. well developed, rigorous project. proposed projects are expected to focus on cancer intervention strategy with high clinical relevance. this relevance should be aligned with current needs of cancer diagnosis and treatment and be put into context of already existing interventions for given cancer indication. projects need to be conceptually well developed and well supported by appropriate preliminary data from investigators’ laboratories with appropriate alternative strategies. the preliminary data needs to demonstrate the efficacy of the proposed intervention in at least two animal models (in case of proposed therapeutic or in vivo diagnostic strategies) and/or experiments involving human samples (in case of proposed in vitro diagnostic strategies). the scope of the proposed project should include physicochemical characterization, biodistribution, safety pharmacology, toxicokinetic/toxicodynamic studies, and additional efficacy confirmation studies in appropriate animal models (see section below: selection of animal tumor models). furthermore, the proposed work should enable advanced optimization of the synthetic routes and process chemistry for proposed nanomedicines or fabrication processes for nano-devices. it is expected that by the end of the project, proposed technologies should mature sufficiently to qualify for gmp materials synthesis and/or device fabrication and glp evaluation studies.2. interaction with the nci's nanotechnology characterization laboratory (ncl). the investigators are expected to work closely with ncl during their project and submit the initial batches of their nanomedicines for confirmatory physicochemical and biological characterization at the early stages of the project.3. selection of tumor types. the project may focus, as appropriate and justified, on one or two rationally selected tumor types or types of abnormalities. in selecting specific tumor types, ttnci applicants are strongly encouraged to consider cancers that may strongly benefit from a nanotechnology approach and to take advantage of available resources with catalogs of clinical tumors that have been comprehensively characterized at the molecular genetics level (e.g., by programs such as the cancer genome atlas (tcga), therapeutically applicable research to generate effective treatments (target), and cancer genome characterization initiative (cgci)). additionally, applicants should consider the tumor type relative to its existing treatment and/or diagnostic paradigms and how their proposed approach could improve these for the tumor type or respective indication.4. selection of animal tumor models. describe the animal tumor models to be used in the proposed studies and explain why selected models carry the potential to predict the behavior in human subjects. the use of non-rodent species (large animals) in proposed studies is strongly encouraged, although not required;5. possible research directions. examples of appropriate research directions are listed in section i. the list is not meant to be comprehensive and additional directions/topics are also encouraged, providing they fit into the overall goals of ttnci funding opportunity and conform to other requirements. moreover, the listed examples are not mutually exclusive and are not meant to confine the scope of a project. various directions may be combined into a single project, if appropriate.milestonesthis sub-section is required for all applications. all applicants must describe here a set of discrete benchmarks that will allow unequivocal determination of the progress made towards the goals of the project. milestones should be scientifically justified and well defined for each year of the project and be based on the proposed specific aims. whenever feasible, milestones should provide quantitative benchmarks for comprehensively assessing the annual progress of the project. milestones must not be simply a restatement of the specific aims. the specific aims describe the research goals of the project. the milestones should provide the means for assessing the progress made towards each aim and offer a timeline for it. the completion of these milestones will be used to judge the success of the proposed research on an individual project basis.examples of milestones:resource sharing plan: individuals are required to comply with the instructions for the resource sharing plans as provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.the following modifications also apply:appendix:only limited appendix materials are allowed. follow all instructions for the appendix as described in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.phs human subjects and clinical trials informationwhen involving human subjects research, clinical research, and/or nih-defined clinical trials (and when applicable, clinical trials research experience) follow all instructions for the phs human subjects and clinical trials information form in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, with the following additional instructions:if you answered “yes” to the question “are human subjects involved?” on the r&r other project information form, you must include at least one human subjects study record using the study record: phs human subjects and clinical trials information form or delayed onset study record.study record: phs human subjects and clinical trials informationall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.delayed onset studynote: delayed onset does not apply to a study that can be described but will not start immediately (i.e., delayed start).all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.phs assignment request formall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.3. unique entity identifier and system for award management (sam)see part 1. section iii.1 for information regarding the requirement for obtaining a unique entity identifier and for completing and maintaining active registrations in system for award management (sam), nato commercial and government entity (ncage) code (if applicable), era commons, and grants.gov4. submission dates and timespart i. overview information contains information about key dates and times. applicants are encouraged to submit applications before the due date to ensure they have time to make any application corrections that might be necessary for successful submission. when a submission date falls on a weekend or federal holiday, the application deadline is automatically extended to the next business day.organizations must submit applications to grants.gov (the online portal to find and apply for grants across all federal agencies). applicants must then complete the submission process by tracking the status of the application in the era commons, nih’s electronic system for grants administration. nih and grants.gov systems check the application against many of the application instructions upon submission. errors must be corrected and a changed/corrected application must be submitted to grants.gov on or before the application due date and time. if a changed/corrected application is submitted after the deadline, the application will be considered late. applications that miss the due date and time are subjected to the nih policy on late application submission.applicants are responsible for viewing their application before the due date in the era commons to ensure accurate and successful submission.information on the submission process and a definition of on-time submission are provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.5. intergovernmental review (e.o. 12372)this initiative is not subject to intergovernmental review.6. funding restrictionsall nih awards are subject to the terms and conditions, cost principles, and other considerations described in the nih grants policy statement.pre-award costs are allowable only as described in the nih grants policy statement.7. other submission requirements and informationapplications must be submitted electronically following the instructions described in the sf424 (r&r) application guide. paper applications will not be accepted.applicants must complete all required registrations before the application due date. section iii. eligibility information contains information about registration.for assistance with your electronic application or for more information on the electronic submission process, visit how to apply – application guide. if you encounter a system issue beyond your control that threatens your ability to complete the submission process on-time, you must follow the dealing with system issues guidance. for assistance with application submission, contact the application submission contacts in section vii.important reminders:all pd(s)/pi(s) must include their era commons id in the credential field of the senior/key person profile component of the sf424(r&r) application package. failure to register in the commons and to include a valid pd/pi commons id in the credential field will prevent the successful submission of an electronic application to nih. see section iii of this foa for information on registration requirements.the applicant organization must ensure that the duns number it provides on the application is the same number used in the organization’s profile in the era commons and for the system for award management. additional information may be found in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.see more tips for avoiding common errors.upon receipt, applications will be evaluated for completeness and compliance with application instructions by the center for scientific review and responsiveness by nci, nih. applications that are incomplete, non-compliant and/or nonresponsive will not be reviewed.post submission materialsapplicants are required to follow the instructions for post-submission materials, as described in the policy. any instructions provided here are in addition to the instructions in the policy.1. criterianote: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023, the data sharing plan and genomic data sharing plan (gds) as part of the resource sharing plan will not be evaluated at time of review.only the review criteria described below will be considered in the review process. applications submitted to the nih in support of the nih mission are evaluated for scientific and technical merit through the nih peer review system.for this particular announcement, note the following:the emphasis and priority of this foa are on advancing translational readiness of nanotechnology-based cancer interventions. the priority will be given to innovative projects in advanced pre-clinical stage which use next generation nanoparticles or nano-devices for the development of clinically viable cancer interventions carrying strong potential of improving cancer treatment or diagnosis effectiveness.overall impactreviewers will provide an overall impact score to reflect their assessment of the likelihood for the project to exert a sustained, powerful influence on the research field(s) involved, in consideration of the following review criteria and additional review criteria (as applicable for the project proposed).reviewers will consider each of the review criteria below in the determination of scientific merit, and give a separate score for each. an application does not need to be strong in all categories to be judged likely to have major scientific impact. for example, a project that by its nature is not innovative may be essential to advance a field.does the project address an important problem or a critical barrier to progress in the field? is the prior research that serves as the key support for the proposed project rigorous? if the aims of the project are achieved, how will scientific knowledge, technical capability, and/or clinical practice be improved? how will successful completion of the aims change the concepts, methods, technologies, treatments, services, or preventative interventions that drive this field?specific to this foa: what is the clinical relevance of the proposed intervention? would proposed nanotechnology-based strategy provide a significant improvement in therapy or diagnosis outcomes as compared to currently available and practiced approaches?are the pd(s)/pi(s), collaborators, and other researchers well suited to the project? if early stage investigators or those in the early stages of independent careers, do they have appropriate experience and training? if established, have they demonstrated an ongoing record of accomplishments that have advanced their field(s)? if the project is collaborative or multi-pd/pi, do the investigators have complementary and integrated expertise; are their leadership approach, governance and organizational structure appropriate for the project?specific to this foa: does the leadership of the project involve investigator(s) with pertinent clinical background?does the application challenge and seek to shift current research or clinical practice paradigms by utilizing novel theoretical concepts, approaches or methodologies, instrumentation, or interventions? are the concepts, approaches or methodologies, instrumentation, or interventions novel to one field of research or novel in a broad sense? is a refinement, improvement, or new application of theoretical concepts, approaches or methodologies, instrumentation, or interventions proposed?specific to this foa: how innovative is the use of proposed nanotechnology approach (rather than innovation in nanotechnology itself) as compared to other available approaches for addressing the clinical problem described in the application? what is the innovation potential of the proposed project in terms of overcoming major barriers towards producing an effective and improved cancer treatment and/or diagnosis for the clinical problem described in the application?are the overall strategy, methodology, and analyses well-reasoned and appropriate to accomplish the specific aims of the project? have the investigators included plans to address weaknesses in the rigor of prior research that serves as the key support for the proposed project? have the investigators presented strategies to ensure a robust and unbiased approach, as appropriate for the work proposed? are potential problems, alternative strategies, and benchmarks for success presented? if the project is in the early stages of development, will the strategy establish feasibility and will particularly risky aspects be managed? have the investigators presented adequate plans to address relevant biological variables, such as sex, for studies in vertebrate animals or human subjects? if the project involves human subjects and/or nih-defined clinical research, are the plans to address 1) the protection of human subjects from research risks, and 2) inclusion (or exclusion) of individuals on the basis of sex/gender, race, and ethnicity, as well as the inclusion or exclusion of individuals of all ages (including children and older adults), justified in terms of the scientific goals and research strategy proposed?specific to this foa: is proposed intervention strategy clinically relevant and viable? does proposed project rely on approaches tested sufficiently and demonstrated in robust set of preliminary data to warrant clinical utility and translational readiness?will the scientific environment in which the work will be done contribute to the probability of success? are the institutional support, equipment and other physical resources available to the investigators adequate for the project proposed? will the project benefit from unique features of the scientific environment, subject populations, or collaborative arrangements?as applicable for the project proposed, reviewers will evaluate the following additional items while determining scientific and technical merit, and in providing an overall impact score, but will not give separate scores for these items.are the milestones adequately comprehensive and realistic? will these milestones allow for sufficiently accurate and informative evaluation of the progress of the project proposed?for research that involves human subjects but does not involve one of the categories of research that are exempt under 45 cfr part 46, the committee will evaluate the justification for involvement of human subjects and the proposed protections from research risk relating to their participation according to the following five review criteria: 1) risk to subjects, 2) adequacy of protection against risks, 3) potential benefits to the subjects and others, 4) importance of the knowledge to be gained, and 5) data and safety monitoring for clinical trials. for research that involves human subjects and meets the criteria for one or more of the categories of research that are exempt under 45 cfr part 46, the committee will evaluate: 1) the justification for the exemption, 2) human subjects involvement and characteristics, and 3) sources of materials. for additional information on review of the human subjects section, please refer to the guidelines for the review of human subjects.when the proposed project involves human subjects and/or nih-defined clinical research, the committee will evaluate the proposed plans for the inclusion (or exclusion) of individuals on the basis of sex/gender, race, and ethnicity, as well as the inclusion (or exclusion) of individuals of all ages (including children and older adults) to determine if it is justified in terms of the scientific goals and research strategy proposed. for additional information on review of the inclusion section, please refer to the guidelines for the review of inclusion in clinical research.the committee will evaluate the involvement of live vertebrate animals as part of the scientific assessment according to the following criteria: (1) description of proposed procedures involving animals, including species, strains, ages, sex, and total number to be used; (2) justifications for the use of animals versus alternative models and for the appropriateness of the species proposed; (3) interventions to minimize discomfort, distress, pain and injury; and (4) justification for euthanasia method if not consistent with the avma guidelines for the euthanasia of animals. reviewers will assess the use of chimpanzees as they would any other application proposing the use of vertebrate animals. for additional information on review of the vertebrate animals section, please refer to the worksheet for review of the vertebrate animal section.reviewers will assess whether materials or procedures proposed are potentially hazardous to research personnel and/or the environment, and if needed, determine whether adequate protection is proposed.for resubmissions, the committee will evaluate the application as now presented, taking into consideration the responses to comments from the previous scientific review group and changes made to the project.for renewals, the committee will consider the progress made in the last funding period.for revisions, the committee will consider the appropriateness of the proposed expansion of the scope of the project. if the revision application relates to a specific line of investigation presented in the original application that was not recommended for approval by the committee, then the committee will consider whether the responses to comments from the previous scientific review group are adequate and whether substantial changes are clearly evident.note: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023, the data sharing plan and genomic data sharing plan (gds) as part of the resource sharing plan will not be evaluated at time of review.as applicable for the project proposed, reviewers will consider each of the following items, but will not give scores for these items, and should not consider them in providing an overall impact score.reviewers will assess whether the project presents special opportunities for furthering research programs through the use of unusual talent, resources, populations, or environmental conditions that exist in other countries and either are not readily available in the united states or augment existing u.s. resources.reviewers will assess the information provided in this section of the application, including 1) the select agent(s) to be used in the proposed research, 2) the registration status of all entities where select agent(s) will be used, 3) the procedures that will be used to monitor possession use and transfer of select agent(s), and 4) plans for appropriate biosafety, biocontainment, and security of the select agent(s).reviewers will comment on whether the following resource sharing plans, or the rationale for not sharing the following types of resources, are reasonable: (1) data sharing plan; (2) sharing model organisms; and (3) genomic data sharing plan (gds).for projects involving key biological and/or chemical resources, reviewers will comment on the brief plans proposed for identifying and ensuring the validity of those resources.reviewers will consider whether the budget and the requested period of support are fully justified and reasonable in relation to the proposed research.2. review and selection processapplications will be evaluated for scientific and technical merit by (an) appropriate scientific review group(s) convened by the center for scientific review (csr), in accordance with nih peer review policy and procedures, using the stated review criteria. assignment to a scientific review group will be shown in the era commons.as part of the scientific peer review, all applications will receive a written critique.applications may undergo a selection process in which only those applications deemed to have the highest scientific and technical merit (generally the top half of applications under review) will be discussed and assigned an overall impact score.3. anticipated announcement and award datesafter the peer review of the application is completed, the pd/pi will be able to access his or her summary statement (written critique) via the era commons. refer to part 1 for dates for peer review, advisory council review, and earliest start date.information regarding the disposition of applications is available in the nih grants policy statement.1. award noticesif the application is under consideration for funding, nih will request "just-in-time" information from the applicant as described in the nih grants policy statement.a formal notification in the form of a notice of award (noa) will be provided to the applicant organization for successful applications. the noa signed by the grants management officer is the authorizing document and will be sent via email to the recipient's business official.recipients must comply with any funding restrictions described in section iv.6. funding restrictions. selection of an application for award is not an authorization to begin performance. any costs incurred before receipt of the noa are at the recipient's risk. these costs may be reimbursed only to the extent considered allowable pre-award costs.any application awarded in response to this foa will be subject to terms and conditions found on the award conditions and information for nih grants website. this includes any recent legislation and policy applicable to awards that is highlighted on this website.institutional review board or independent ethics committee approval: recipient institutions must ensure that protocols are reviewed by their irb or iec. to help ensure the safety of participants enrolled in nih-funded studies, the recipient must provide nih copies of documents related to all major changes in the status of ongoing protocols.2. administrative and national policy requirementsall nih grant and cooperative agreement awards include the nih grants policy statement as part of the noa. for these terms of award, see the nih grants policy statement part ii: terms and conditions of nih grant awards, subpart a: general and part ii: terms and conditions of nih grant awards, subpart b: terms and conditions for specific types of grants, recipients, and activities, including of note, but not limited to:if a recipient is successful and receives a notice of award, in accepting the award, the recipient agrees that any activities under the award are subject to all provisions currently in effect or implemented during the period of the award, other department regulations and policies in effect at the time of the award, and applicable statutory provisions.recipients of federal financial assistance (ffa) from hhs must administer their programs in compliance with federal civil rights laws that prohibit discrimination on the basis of race, color, national origin, disability, age and, in some circumstances, religion, conscience, and sex. this includes ensuring programs are accessible to persons with limited english proficiency. the hhs office for civil rights provides guidance on complying with civil rights laws enforced by hhs. please see https://www.hhs.gov/civil-rights/for-providers/provider-obligations/index.html and http://www.hhs.gov/ocr/civilrights/understanding/section1557/index.html.hhs recognizes that research projects are often limited in scope for many reasons that are nondiscriminatory, such as the principal investigator’s scientific interest, funding limitations, recruitment requirements, and other considerations. thus, criteria in research protocols that target or exclude certain populations are warranted where nondiscriminatory justifications establish that such criteria are appropriate with respect to the health or safety of the subjects, the scientific study design, or the purpose of the research. for additional guidance regarding how the provisions apply to nih grant programs, please contact the scientific/research contact that is identified in section vii under agency contacts of this foa.please contact the hhs office for civil rights for more information about obligations and prohibitions under federal civil rights laws at https://www.hhs.gov/ocr/about-us/contact-us/index.html or call 1-800-368-1019 or tdd 1-800-537-7697.in accordance with the statutory provisions contained in section 872 of the duncan hunter national defense authorization act of fiscal year 2009 (public law 110-417), nih awards will be subject to the federal awardee performance and integrity information system (fapiis) requirements. fapiis requires federal award making officials to review and consider information about an applicant in the designated integrity and performance system (currently fapiis) prior to making an award. an applicant, at its option, may review information in the designated integrity and performance systems accessible through fapiis and comment on any information about itself that a federal agency previously entered and is currently in fapiis. the federal awarding agency will consider any comments by the applicant, in addition to other information in fapiis, in making a judgement about the applicant’s integrity, business ethics, and record of performance under federal awards when completing the review of risk posed by applicants as described in 45 cfr part 75.205 and 2 cfr part 200.206 “federal awarding agency review of risk posed by applicants.” this provision will apply to all nih grants and cooperative agreements except fellowships.not applicabledata management and sharingnote: the nih policy for data management and sharing is effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023.consistent with the nih policy for data management and sharing, when data management and sharing is applicable to the award, recipients will be required to adhere to the data management and sharing requirements as outlined in the nih grants policy statement. upon the approval of a data management and sharing plan, it is required for recipients to implement the plan as described.3. reportingwhen multiple years are involved, recipients will be required to submit the research performance progress report (rppr) annually and financial statements as required in the nih grants policy statement.a final rppr, invention statement, and the expenditure data portion of the federal financial report are required for closeout of an award, as described in the nih grants policy statement. nih foas outline intended research goals and objectives. post award, nih will review and measure performance based on the details and outcomes that are shared within the rppr, as described at 45 cfr part 75.301 and 2 cfr part 200.301.the federal funding accountability and transparency act of 2006 (transparency act), includes a requirement for recipients of federal grants to report information about first-tier subawards and executive compensation under federal assistance awards issued in fy2011 or later. all recipients of applicable nih grants and cooperative agreements are required to report to the federal subaward reporting system (fsrs) available at www.fsrs.gov on all subawards over the threshold. see the nih grants policy statement for additional information on this reporting requirement.in accordance with the regulatory requirements provided at 45 cfr 75.113 and 2 cfr part 200.113 and appendix xii to 45 cfr part 75 and 2 cfr part 200, recipients that have currently active federal grants, cooperative agreements, and procurement contracts from all federal awarding agencies with a cumulative total value greater than $10,000,000 for any period of time during the period of performance of a federal award, must report and maintain the currency of information reported in the system for award management (sam) about civil, criminal, and administrative proceedings in connection with the award or performance of a federal award that reached final disposition within the most recent five-year period. the recipient must also make semiannual disclosures regarding such proceedings. proceedings information will be made publicly available in the designated integrity and performance system (currently fapiis). this is a statutory requirement under section 872 of public law 110-417, as amended (41 u.s.c. 2313). as required by section 3010 of public law 111-212, all information posted in the designated integrity and performance system on or after april 15, 2011, except past performance reviews required for federal procurement contracts, will be publicly available. full reporting requirements and procedures are found in appendix xii to 45 cfr part 75 and 2 cfr part 200 – award term and condition for recipient integrity and performance matters.we encourage inquiries concerning this funding opportunity and welcome the opportunity to answer questions from potential applicants.era service desk (questions regarding assist, era commons, application errors and warnings, documenting system problems that threaten submission by the due date, and post-submission issues)finding help online: http://grants.nih.gov/support/ (preferred method of contact) telephone: 301-402-7469 or 866-504-9552 (toll free)general grants information (questions regarding application instructions, application processes, and nih grant resources) email: grantsinfo@nih.gov (preferred method of contact) telephone: 301-637-3015grants.gov customer support (questions regarding grants.gov registration and workspace) contact center telephone: 800-518-4726 email: support@grants.govpiotr grodzinski, ph.d. national cancer institute (nci) telephone: 240-781-3305 email: grodzinp@mail.nih.govcarolina salvador morales, ph.d. national cancer institute (nci) telephone: 240-276-2781 email: carolina.salvadormorales@nih.govcenter for scientific review (csr) email: foareviewcontact@csr.nih.govshane woodward national cancer institute (nci) telephone: 240-276-6303 email: woodwars@mail.nih.govrecently issued trans-nih policy notices may affect your application submission. a full list of policy notices published by nih is provided in the nih guide for grants and contracts. all awards are subject to the terms and conditions, cost principles, and other considerations described in the nih grants policy statement.awards are made under the authorization of sections 301 and 405 of the public health service act as amended (42 usc 241 and 284) and under federal regulations 42 cfr part 52 and 45 cfr part 75 and 2 cfr part 200.weekly toc for this announcement nih funding opportunities and noticesnote: for help accessing pdf, rtf, ms word, excel, powerpoint, audio or video files, see help downloading files.