Mid-Career Enhancement Awards to Integrate Basic Behavioral, Biomedical, and/or Social Scientific Processes (K18 No Independent Clinical Trials)
national institutes of health (nih)nih basic behavioral and social science opportunity network (oppnet) national institute on alcohol abuse and alcoholism (niaaa) national institute of environmental health sciences (niehs) national institute of mental health (nimh) national institute on minority health and health disparities (nimhd) national center for complementary and integrative health (nccih) national cancer institute (nci) all applications to this funding opportunity announcement should fall within the mission of the institutes/centers. the following nih offices may co-fund applications assigned to those institutes/centers. office of behavioral and social sciences research (obssr)national institute on alcohol abuse and alcoholism (niaaa)national institute of environmental health sciences (niehs)national institute of mental health (nimh)national institute on minority health and health disparities (nimhd)national center for complementary and integrative health (nccih)national cancer institute (nci)all applications to this funding opportunity announcement should fall within the mission of the institutes/centers. the following nih offices may co-fund applications assigned to those institutes/centers.office of behavioral and social sciences research (obssr)newpar-20-226, mid-career enhancement awards to integrate basic behavioral, biomedical, and/or social scientific processes (k18 basic experimental studies with humans required)see section iii. 3. additional information on eligibility.93.398, 93.213, 93.271, 93.846, 93.121, 93.281this funding opportunity announcement (foa) invites applications from investigators who strive to expand their research trajectories through the acquisition of new knowledge and skills in the areas of basic psychological processes, sociological processes, and/or biomedical pathways—expertise that is beyond and enhances their current areas of expertise. the program will support career development experiences and a small-scale research project that will provide experienced investigators with the scientific competencies required to conduct independent research projects that more thoroughly investigate interrelationships among behavioral, biological, endocrine, epigenetic, immune, inflammatory, neurological, psychological, and/or social processes. applicants may propose research that involves non-human animals, secondary data analyses, or other career development projects that do not involve leading an independent clinical trial, a clinical trial feasibility study, or an ancillary study to a clinical trial. applicants are permitted to propose research experience within a clinical trial led by a mentor or co-mentor. eligible candidates are independent investigators at mid-career faculty rank or level.this funding opportunity announcement (foa) is designed specifically for applicants proposing research that does not involve leading an independent clinical trial, a clinical trial feasibility study,or an ancillary study to a clinical trial.applicants proposing basic experimental studies with humans (besh) should apply to the companion foa par-20-226. .june 3, 2020not applicablemarch 17, 2021, march 17, 2022, march 17, 2023all applications are due by 5:00 pm local time of applicant organization. all types of non-aids applications allowed for this funding opportunity announcement are due on these dates.applicants are encouraged to apply early to allow adequate time to make any corrections to errors found in the application during the submission process by the due date.march 17, 2021, march 17, 2022, march 17, 2023all applications are due by 5:00 pm local time of applicant organization. all types of aids and aids-related applications allowed for this funding opportunity announcement are due on these dates.applicants are encouraged to apply early to allow adequate time to make any corrections to errors found in the application during the submission process by the due date.not applicablethere are several options available to submit your application through grants.gov to nih and department of health and human services partners. you must use one of these submission options to access the application forms for this opportunity.we encourage inquiries concerning this funding opportunity and welcome the opportunity to answer questions from potential applicants.the overall goal of the nih research career development program is to help ensure that a diverse pool of highly trained scientists is available in appropriate scientific disciplines to address the nation's biomedical, behavioral, and clinical research needs. nih institutes and centers (ics) support a variety of mentored and non-mentored career development award programs designed to foster the transition of new investigators to research independence and to support established investigators in achieving specific objectives. candidates should review the different career development (k) award programs to determine the best program to support their goals. more information about career programs may be found at the nih extramural training mechanisms website.the objective of the career enhancement award for experienced investigators (k18) is to provide support for experienced scientists who either wish to broaden their scientific capabilities or to make changes in their research careers by acquiring new research skills or knowledge. the purpose of this foa is to provide such investigators with support for an intensive period of mentored research experience to acquire new research capabilities in research areas supported by the sponsoring nih institute(s)/center(s). such experiences will afford candidate investigators protected time to: 1) enrich and expand their expertise and research programs through retooling in new techniques, emerging technologies, and/or scientific areas; and/or 2) redirect their research programs in new trajectories; and/or 3) catalyze research collaborations in new research directions. it is expected that this initiative will lead to new and/or augmented research programs competitive for nih funding.about oppnetoppnet is a trans-nih initiative that accelerates discoveries in the underlying mechanisms and processes that inform health behaviors through deepened understanding of basic social-behavioral mechanisms and processes, and enhanced synergies in biopsychosocial processes that influence outcomes in health, illness, recovery, and overall wellbeing. all oppnet initiatives invite investigators to propose research projects that will advance basic social and behavioral sciences and produce knowledge and/or tools of potential relevance to multiple domains of behavioral and biomedical health research. all nih institutes and centers that fund research and program coordination offices within the nih office of the director (icos) collectively manage oppnet's scientific direction yet may not participate in every oppnet foa. consequently, applicants should review the list of icos in this foa's components of participating organizations. for more information about oppnet, visit https://oppnet.nih.gov.oppnet strives to ensure that proposed projects focus primarily on basic social, behavioral, and biopsychosocial sciences. though oppnet defers from imposing a definition on the field, oppnet uses the following statement to guide the concepts it develops toward funding opportunity announcements: basic behavioral and social sciences research (b-bssr) furthers our understanding of fundamental mechanisms and patterns of behavioral and social functioning, relevant to the nation's health and wellbeing, and as they interact with each other, with biology, and with the environment. oppnet acknowledges that disease-, risk-, and wellness-contexts can provide opportunities to study basic behavioral or social processes, basic biobehavioral or biosocial interrelationships, or methodology and measurement relevant to b-bssr.program objectivethe objective of this career enhancement award for mid-career investigators (k18) is to provide support for experienced scientists who wish either to expand their scientific capabilities or to change their research careers by acquiring new research knowledge or skills. in addition to preparing the awardee to apply for future independent funding in areas beyond her/his current expertise, it is expected that this career development activity also will lead to new research collaborations that could be competitive for future nih funding, particularly projects that account for biopsychosocial interrelationships that impact behavior change and adherence related to health, recovery, and overall wellbeing.applicants are expected to identify one or more research mentors with relevant expertise in applicant knowledge-gap areas. the mentor(s) must be established, well-qualified, and willing to support the applicant's short-term research career development experience. the candidate and the proposed mentor(s) should not currently have established, longstanding collaborations at the time of the application. candidates are expected either to establish new collaborative arrangements or to strengthen and enhance relatively new or developing collaborations on a research project.examples of novel skill combinations that might result from mentored career development include, but are not limited to:1. development of career expertise and collaboration among researchers with expertise in animal models of basic behavioral and social processes and those studying similar or related processes in human subjects. for example, a researcher who studies human neurobiological mechanisms involved with social cognition might propose to work with an expert who studies neurobiological circuitry in social cognition among model animals.2. increased collaboration among basic and applied sciences and researchers to facilitate basic-applied translations. innovative approaches to change individual health-related behaviors and/or social systems begin with basic (or fundamental) research that illuminates mechanisms and targets involved with attitudes, decision-making, and behavior change and maintenance. applied (or intervention) research can identify intractable unhealthy behaviors or efficacious interventions whose original designs did not include sufficient basic measures to explain the intervention's efficacy--thus suggesting basic research questions. for example, an applied researcher who repeatedly has found that a setting-based social-network intervention results in sustained healthier behaviors might propose mentoring from a basic sociologist with expert knowledge in social network nodes and ties.3. interactions among biological, behavioral, and social processes. examples include and are not limited to, behavioral cardiology, cell biology, economic neuroscience, genetics, (self-) management of chronic conditions, neurolinguistics, live and virtual social networks, and the spread of disease or wellness. for example, a behavioral or cognitive neuroscientist may propose to extend her expertise with a mentor in the field of computational sciences; a disease-specific researcher might seek career mentoring in cognitive, social, and/or decision-making processes for more comprehensive future research approaches.4. new approaches to research design and data collection, measurement, and analysis. sample projects include research tools that could be used in behavioral and social sciences, engineering and technological sciences, in biomedical sciences, or interactions of multiple disciplines. big data collection and analysis also is appropriate for this announcement. for example, a computational scientist who designs and analyzes mobile health applications might propose to be mentored by a cognitive or developmental neuropsychologist; a neuroscientist might seek additional training in behavioral and/or systems science and vice versa.this short-term (up to 12 months) period of mentored research experience should expand the investigator's current expertise and lead to new knowledge and skills and potential new collaborators. the research career enhancement experience may be conducted in a different department within the candidate's home institution or in a different institutional setting from the location where the candidate holds her or his primary appointment. mentoring may occur in-person, virtually, or in combination. the research experience proposed must have the potential to augment the candidate’s research capabilities substantially and provide new research opportunities and benefits that would not be achievable through a collaborative research grant with the mentor(s). the research career enhancement experience should be tailored to the individual needs and level of experience of the candidate. the career enhancement plan may include (1) a didactic academic enrichment plan, e.g., coursework, seminars, journal clubs, etc., and (2) a small-scale research project. the research project is expected to expand the candidate's desired expertise.ics participating in this foa may have specific interests. oppnet strongly encourages researchers to discuss their interests with scientific/research contacts well in advance of submitting applications. ic-specific interests appear below:national cancer institute (nci)nci has a specific interest in expertise development and collaboration among researchers with expertise in animal models of biobehavioral cancer-related processes and those who study cancer-related outcomes in humans. examples may include, but are not limited to the following:national center on complementary and integrative health (nccih)the national center for complementary and integrative health (nccih) strongly encourages investigators to discuss their plans with nccih program staff prior to submitting their application. nccih interests include,ational institute on alcohol abuse and alcoholism (niaaa)niaaa interests include but are not limited to:national institute of environmental health sciences (niehs)the national institute of environmental health sciences (niehs) strongly encourages investigators to discuss their interests with niehs program staff prior to submitting their application. the mission of niehs is to discover how the environment affects people in order to promote healthier lives. niehs supports research to understand how exposures to toxic environmental insults alter biologic processes, are linked to disease initiation, progression or morbidity, and the development of prevention and intervention strategies to mitigate the effect of these exposures. examples of environmental agents which are considered of primary interest for niehs include industrial chemicals or manufacturing byproducts, metals, pesticides, herbicides, air pollutants and other inhaled toxicants, both indoor and outdoor. further information is available in the niehs strategic plan https://www.niehs.nih.gov/about/strategicplan/index.cfm. areas of interest to niehs in this announcement include, but are not limited to:national institute of mental health (nimh)nimh strongly encourages investigators to discuss their plans with nimh program staff prior to submitting their application. nimh interests include, but are not limited to:• career development and collaboration between experts in behavioral task development, validation, and/or measurement and experts in neurobiological measures. projects in human, animal, clinical, and basic populations are of interest. measurement of brain and behavior in lab-based or real-world contexts are of interest. investigators are encouraged to align their proposals with nimh’s priorities and domains of function as articulated in https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/notice-files/not-mh-19-053.html and https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/pa-files/par-18-930.html.• opportunities for career expertise development and collaboration that will help elucidate the contribution of social processes (e.g., emotion contagion, communication, social dynamics and/or social network structure, bullying, etc) in the etiology and trajectory of mental illness. innovative and advanced statistical techniques and methodologies for analyzing network data are encouraged.• expertise development in computational, mathematical and engineering approaches for basic and clinical mental health researchers, with the goals of establishing causal links across diverse data sets to enhance understanding of mental illnesses and mental health outcomes.• collaboration and career expertise development between translational researchers and social scientists (e.g experts in the fields of economics, sociology, public health, and decision-science) to understand the mechanisms by which societal, cultural, and community factors mediate risk or resilience for mental illnesses. research on suicide is of particularly high priority, but other mental health areas also welcome.• development of career expertise and collaboration between basic and behavioral researchers to understand the biological, behavioral, and psychosocial mechanisms of mood disorders in people living with hiv, particularly the role of the neuroimmune system, and to understand how interventions to improve mood disorders impact these mechanisms and outcomes.national institute on minority health and health disparities (nimhd)the national institute on minority health and health disparities (nimhd) seeks to increase and maintain a strong cohort of investigators in minority health and health disparities research. applications are accepted for all areas of research including biomedical, clinical, population health, behavioral and social sciences. projects must include a focus on one or more nih-designated health disparity populations in the united states, which include african americans, latinos/hispanics, american indians/alaska natives, asians, native hawaiians and other pacific islanders, less privileged socioeconomic groups, underserved rural residents, and sexual and gender minorities (sgms).nimhd supports the study of many aspects of minority health and health disparities— from genetic, molecular, and biologic science to clinical, behavioral, and translational research, as well as research on health care services and systems, and research workforce development. nimhd focuses on the full continuum of causes of health disparities and the interrelation of these causes. for more information on specific areas of research please see: https://www.nimhd.nih.gov/programs/extramural/nimhd encourages projects that use approaches encompassing multiple domains of influence (e.g., biological, behavioral, sociocultural, environmental, physical environment, health system) and multiple levels of influence (e.g., individual, interpersonal, family, peer group, community, societal) to understand and address health disparities (see the nimhd research framework, https://www.nimhd.nih.gov/about/overview/research-framework.html, for more information).note: this funding opportunity announcement (foa) is designed specifically for applicants proposing research that does not involve leading an independent clinical trial, a clinical trial feasibility study, or an ancillary study to a clinical trial. applicants proposing research training that involves basic experimental studies with humans should apply to the companion foa (par-20-226).special note: because of the differences in individual institute or center (ic) program requirements for this foa, prospective applicants are strongly encouraged to consult the table of ic-specific information, requirements, and staff contacts, to make sure that their application is appropriate for the requirements for one of the participating nih ics.see section viii. other information for award authorities and regulations.grant: a support mechanism providing money, property, or both to an eligible entity to carry out an approved project or activity.the oer glossary and the sf424 (r&r) application guide provide details on these application types.note: applicants may propose to gain experience in a clinical trial led by a mentor/co-mentor as part of their research career development.need help determining whether you are doing a clinical trial?the number of awards is contingent upon nih appropriations and the submission of a sufficient number of meritorious applications.the total nih contribution to salary, however, may not exceed the legislatively mandated salary cap. see: http://grants.nih.gov/grants/policy/salcap_summary.htm.nih will contribute $35,000per yeartoward the research development costs of the award recipient, which must be justified and consistent with the stage of development of the candidate and the proportion of time to be spent in research or career development activities.these funds may be used for the following expenses: (a) tuition and fees related to career development; (b) research-related expenses, such as supplies, equipment, and technical personnel; (c) travel to research meetings or training; and (d) statistical services including personnel and computer time. salary for mentors, secretarial and administrative assistants, etc. is not allowed.higher education institutionsthe following types of higher education institutions are always encouraged to apply for nih support as public or private institutions of higher education:nonprofits other than institutions of higher educationfor-profit organizationsgovernmentsapplicant organizationsapplicant organizations must complete and maintain the following registrations as described in the sf 424 (r&r) application guide to be eligible to apply for or receive an award. all registrations must be completed prior to the application being submitted. registration can take 6 weeks or more, so applicants should begin the registration process as soon as possible. the nih policy on late submission of grant applications states that failure to complete registrations in advance of a due date is not a valid reason for a late submission.program directors/principalinvestigators (pd(s)/pi(s))all pd(s)/pi(s) must have an era commons account. pd(s)/pi(s) should work with their organizational officials to either create a new account or to affiliate their existing account with the applicant organization in era commons. if the pd/pi is also the organizational signing official, they must have two distinct era commons accounts, one for each role. obtaining an era commons account can take up to 2 weeks.all pd(s)/pi(s) must be registered with orcid. the personal profile associated with the pd(s)/pi(s) era commons account must be linked to a valid orcid id. for more information on linking an orcid id to an era commons personal profile see the orcid topic in our era commons online help.any candidate with the skills, knowledge, and resources necessary to carry out the proposed research as the program director/principal investigator (pd/pi) is invited to work with his/her mentor and organization to develop an application for support. individuals from underrepresented racial and ethnic groups as well as individuals with disabilities are always encouraged to apply for nih support. multiple pds/pis are not allowed.applicant organizations may submit more than one application, provided that each application is scientifically distinct, and each is from a different candidate.the nih will not accept duplicate or highly overlapping applications under review at the same time. an individual may not have two or more competing nih career development applications pending review concurrently. in addition, nih will not accept:candidates who have va appointments may not consider part of the va effort toward satisfying the full time requirement at the applicant institution. candidates with va appointments should contact the staff person in the relevant institute or center prior to preparing an application to discuss their eligibility.after the receipt of the award, adjustments to the required level of effort may be made in certain circumstances. see not-od-09-036 for more details.mentor(s) before submitting the application, the candidate must identify a mentor who will supervise the proposed career development and research experience. the mentor should be an active investigator in the area of the proposed research and be committed both to the career development of the candidate and to the direct supervision of the candidate’s research. the mentor must document the availability of sufficient research support and facilities for high-quality research. candidates are encouraged to identify more than one mentor, i.e., a mentoring team, if this is deemed advantageous for providing expert advice in all aspects of the research career development program. in such cases, one individual must be identified as the primary mentor who will coordinate the candidate’s research. the candidate must work with the mentor(s) in preparing the application. the mentor, or a member of the mentoring team, should have a successful track record of mentoring individuals at the candidate’s career stage. where feasible, women, individuals from diverse racial and ethnic groups, and individuals with disabilities should be involved as mentors to serve as role models.buttons to access the online assist system or to download application forms are available in part 1 of this foa. see your administrative office for instructions if you plan to use an institutional system-to-system solution.for information on application submission and receipt, visit frequently asked questions – application guide, electronic submission of grant applications.all page limitations described in the sf424 application guide and the table of page limits must be followed.note: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023, the data management and sharing (dms) plan will be attached in the other plan(s) attachment in forms-h and subsequent application forms packages. for due dates on or before january 24, 2023, the data sharing plan and genomic data sharing plan gds) will continue to be attached in the resource sharing plan attachment in forms-g application forms packages.the following section supplements the instructions found in the sf424 (r&r) application guide and should be used for preparing an application to this foa.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.project summary/abstractinclude a description of your current research and the research you propose to continue in the independent phase.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.important reminder: the personal profile associated with the era commons username entered in the credential field for the pd/pi (candidate) must include an orcid id. for more information on linking an orcid id to an era commons personal profile see the orcid topic in our era commons online helpall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.other plan(s):note: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023, the data management and sharing plan will be attached in the other plan(s) attachment in forms-h and subsequent application forms packages. for due dates on or before january 24, 2023, the data sharing plan and genomic data sharing plan gds) will continue to be attached in the resource sharing plan attachment in forms-g application forms packages.all applicants planning research (funded or conducted in whole or in part by nih) that results in the generation of scientific data are required to comply with the instructions for the data management and sharing plan. all applications, regardless of the amount of direct costs requested for any one year, must address a data management and sharing plan.the phs 398 career development award supplemental form is comprised of the following sections:candidate research plan other candidate information mentor, co-mentor, consultant, collaborators environment & institutional commitment to the candidate other research plan sections appendixall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed. candidate sectionall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed, with the following additional instructions:candidate information and goals for career developmentcandidate’s backgroundcareer goals and objectives?candidate’s plan for career development/training activities during award period research plan sectionall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed, with the following additional instructions:research strategytraining in the responsible conduct of research mentor, co-mentor, consultant, collaborators sectionall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed, with the following additional instructions:plans and statements of mentor and co-mentor(s)letters of support from collaborators, contributors and consultants environmental and institutional commitment to the candidateall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed, with the following additional instructions:description of institutional environmentinstitutional commitment to the candidate’s research career developmentappendix:limited items are allowed in the appendix. follow all instructions for the appendix as described in the sf424 (r&r) application guide; any instructions provided here are in addition to the sf424 (r&r) application guide instructions.when involving human subjects research, clinical research, and/or nih-defined clinical trials (and when applicable, clinical trials research experience) follow all instructions for the phs human subjects and clinical trials information form in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, with the following additional instructions:if you answered “yes” to the question “are human subjects involved?” on the r&r other project information form, you must include at least one human subjects study record using the study record: phs human subjects and clinical trials information form or delayed onset study record.study record: phs human subjects and clinical trials informationall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.delayed onset studyall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.reference letterscandidates must carefully follow the sf424 (r&r) application guide, including the time period for when reference letters will be accepted. applications lacking the appropriate required reference letters will not be reviewed. this is a separate process from submitting an application electronically. reference letters are submitted directly through the era commons submit referee information link and not through grants.gov.see part 1. section iii.1 for information regarding the requirement for obtaining a unique entity identifier and for completing and maintaining active registrations in system for award management (sam), nato commercial and government entity (ncage) code (if applicable), era commons, and grants.govpart i. overview information contains information about key dates and times. applicants are encouraged to submit applications before the due date to ensure they have time to make any application corrections that might be necessary for successful submission. when a submission date falls on a weekend or federal holiday, the application deadline is automatically extended to the next business day.organizations must submit applications to grants.gov (the online portal to find and apply for grants across all federal agencies) using assist or other electronic submission systems. applicants must then complete the submission process by tracking the status of the application in the era commons, nih’s electronic system for grants administration. nih and grants.gov systems check the application against many of the application instructions upon submission. errors must be corrected and a changed/corrected application must be submitted to grants.gov on or before the application due date and time. if a changed/corrected application is submitted after the deadline, the application will be considered late. applications that miss the due date and time are subjected to the nih policy on late application submission.applicants are responsible for viewing their application before the due date in the era commons to ensure accurate and successful submission.information on the submission process and a definition of on-time submission are provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.all nih awards are subject to the terms and conditions, cost principles, and other considerations described in the nih grants policy statement.pre-award costs are allowable only as described in the nih grants policy statement.applications must be submitted electronically following the instructions described in the sf424 (r&r) application guide. paper applications will not be accepted.applicants must complete all required registrations before the application due date. section iii. eligibility information contains information about registration.for assistance with your electronic application or for more information on the electronic submission process, visit applying electronically. if you encounter a system issue beyond your control that threatens your ability to complete the submission process on-time, you must follow the guidelines for applicants experiencing system issues. for assistance with application submission, contact the application submission contacts in section vii.important reminders:all pd(s)/pi(s) must include their era commons id in the credential field of the senior/key person profile component of the sf424(r&r) application package. failure to register in the commons and to include a valid pd/pi commons id in the credential field will prevent the successful submission of an electronic application to nih. see section iii of this foa for information on registration requirements.the applicant organization must ensure that the duns number it provides on the application is the same number used in the organization’s profile in the era commons and for the system for award management. additional information may be found in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.see more tips for avoiding common errors.upon receipt, applications will be evaluated for completeness and compliance with application instructions by the center for scientific review, nih. applications that are incomplete or non-compliant will not be reviewed.applicants are required to follow the instructions for post-submission materials, as described in the policy. any instructions provided here are in addition to the instructions in the policy.note: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023, the data sharing plan and genomic data sharing plan (gds) as part of the resource sharing plan will not be evaluated at time of review.only the review criteria described below will be considered in the review process. applications submitted to the nih in support of the nih mission are evaluated for scientific and technical merit through the nih peer review system.reviewers should provide their assessment of the likelihood that the proposed career development and research plan will enhance the candidate’s potential for a productive, independent scientific research career in a health-related field, taking into consideration the criteria below in determining the overall impact score.reviewers will consider each of the review criteria below in the determination of scientific merit, and give a separate score for each. an application does not need to be strong in all categories to be judged likely to have major scientific impact. candidate career development plan/career goals and objectives research plan mentor(s), co-mentor(s), consultant(s), collaborator(s) environment & institutional commitment to the candidate protections for human subjectsfor research that involves human subjects but does not involve one of the categories of research that are exempt under 45 cfr part 46, the committee will evaluate the justification for involvement of human subjects and the proposed protections from research risk relating to their participation according to the following five review criteria: 1) risk to subjects, 2) adequacy of protection against risks, 3) potential benefits to the subjects and others, 4) importance of the knowledge to be gained, and 5) data and safety monitoring for clinical trials.for research that involves human subjects and meets the criteria for one or more of the categories of research that are exempt under 45 cfr part 46, the committee will evaluate: 1) the justification for the exemption, 2) human subjects involvement and characteristics, and 3) sources of materials. for additional information on review of the human subjects section, please refer to the guidelines for the review of human subjects. inclusion of women, minorities, and individuals across the lifespanwhen the proposed project involves human subjects and/or nih-defined clinical research, the committee will evaluate the proposed plans for the inclusion (or exclusion) of individuals on the basis of sex/gender, race, and ethnicity, as well as the inclusion (or exclusion) of individuals of all ages (including children and older adults) to determine if it is justified in terms of the scientific goals and research strategy proposed. for additional information on review of the inclusion section, please refer to the guidelines for the review of inclusion in clinical research. vertebrate animalsthe committee will evaluate the involvement of live vertebrate animals as part of the scientific assessment according to the following criteria: (1) description of proposed procedures involving animals, including species, strains, ages, sex, and total number to be used; (2) justifications for the use of animals versus alternative models and for the appropriateness of the species proposed; (3) interventions to minimize discomfort, distress, pain and injury; and (4) justification for euthanasia method if not consistent with the avma guidelines for the euthanasia of animals. reviewers will assess the use of chimpanzees as they would any other application proposing the use of vertebrate animals. for additional information on review of the vertebrate animals section, please refer to the worksheet for review of the vertebrate animal section. biohazardsreviewers will assess whether materials or procedures proposed are potentially hazardous to research personnel and/or the environment, and if needed, determine whether adequate protection is proposed. resubmissionsnot applicable. revisionsnot applicable.note: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023, the data sharing plan and genomic data sharing plan (gds) as part of the resource sharing plan will not be evaluated at time of review.as applicable for the project proposed, reviewers will consider each of the following items, but will not give scores for these items, and should not consider them in providing an overall impact score. resource sharing plansreviewers will comment on whether the following resource sharing plans, or the rationale for not sharing the following types of resources, are reasonable: (1) data sharing plan; (2) sharing model organisms; and (3) genomic data sharing plan (gds). training in the responsible conduct of researchall applications for support under this foa must include a plan to fulfill nih requirements for instruction in the responsible conduct of research (rcr). taking into account the level of experience of the applicant, including any prior instruction or participation in rcr as appropriate for the applicant’s career stage, the reviewers will evaluate the adequacy of the proposed rcr training in relation to the following five required components: 1) format - the required format of instruction, i.e., face-to-face lectures, coursework, and/or real-time discussion groups (a plan with only on-line instruction is not acceptable); 2) subject matter - the breadth of subject matter, e.g., conflict of interest, authorship, data management, human subjects and animal use, laboratory safety, research misconduct, research ethics; 3) faculty participation - the role of the mentor(s) and other faculty involvement in the fellow’s instruction; 4) duration of instruction - the number of contact hours of instruction (at least eight contact hours are required); and 5) frequency of instruction –instruction must occur during each career stage and at least once every four years. plans and past record will be rated as acceptable or unacceptable, and the summary statement will provide the consensus of the review committee. see also: not-od-10-019. select agent researchreviewers will assess the information provided in this section of the application, including 1) the select agent(s) to be used in the proposed research, 2) the registration status of all entities where select agent(s) will be used, 3) the procedures that will be used to monitor possession use and transfer of select agent(s), and 4) plans for appropriate biosafety, biocontainment, and security of the select agent(s). authentication of key biological and/or chemical resources:for projects involving key biological and/or chemical resources, reviewers will comment on the brief plans proposed for identifying and ensuring the validity of those resources. budget and period of supportreviewers will consider whether the budget and the requested period of support are fully justified and reasonable in relation to the proposed research.applications will be evaluated for scientific and technical merit by (an) appropriate scientific review group(s),convened by the center for scientific review in accordance with nih peer review policy and procedures, using the stated review criteria. assignment to a scientific review group will be shown in the era commons.as part of the scientific peer review, all applications: applications will be assigned on the basis of established phs referral guidelines to the appropriate nih institute or center. applications will compete for available funds with all other recommended applications. following initial peer review, recommended applications will receive a second level of review by the appropriate national advisory council or board.after the peer review of the application is completed, the pd/pi will be able to access his or her summary statement (written critique) via the era commons.refer to part 1 for dates for peer review, advisory council review, and earliest start date.information regarding the disposition of applications is available in the nih grants policy statement.if the application is under consideration for funding, nih will request "just-in-time" information from the applicant as described in the nih grants policy statement.a formal notification in the form of a notice of award (noa) will be provided to the applicant organization for successful applications. the noa signed by the grants management officer is the authorizing document and will be sent via email to the grantee’s business official.awardees must comply with any funding restrictions described in section iv.5. funding restrictions. selection of an application for award is not an authorization to begin performance. any costs incurred before receipt of the noa are at the recipient's risk. these costs may be reimbursed only to the extent considered allowable pre-award costs.any application awarded in response to this foa will be subject to terms and conditions found on the award conditions and information for nih grants website. this includes any recent legislation and policy applicable to awards that is highlighted on this website.all nih grant and cooperative agreement awards include thenih grants policy statementas part of the noa. for these terms of award, see thenih grants policy statement part ii: terms and conditions of nih grant awards, subpart a: generalandpart ii: terms and conditions of nih grant awards, subpart b: terms and conditions for specific types of grants, grantees, and activities. more information is provided ataward conditions and information for nih grants. more specifically, for k awards, visit theresearch career development (“k”) awardees section of the nih grants policy statement.recipients of federal financial assistance (ffa) from hhs must administer their programs in compliance with federal civil rights laws that prohibit discrimination on the basis of race, color, national origin, disability, age and, in some circumstances, religion, conscience, and sex. this includes ensuring programs are accessible to persons with limited english proficiency. the hhs office for civil rights provides guidance on complying with civil rights laws enforced by hhs. please see https://www.hhs.gov/civil-rights/for-providers/provider-obligations/index.html and http://www.hhs.gov/ocr/civilrights/understanding/section1557/index.html.hhs recognizes that research projects are often limited in scope for many reasons that are nondiscriminatory, such as the principal investigator’s scientific interest, funding limitations, recruitment requirements, and other considerations. thus, criteria in research protocols that target or exclude certain populations are warranted where nondiscriminatory justifications establish that such criteria are appropriate with respect to the health or safety of the subjects, the scientific study design, or the purpose of the research. for additional guidance regarding how the provisions apply to nih grant programs, please contact the scientific/research contact that is identified in section vii under agency contacts of this foa.please contact the hhs office for civil rights for more information about obligations and prohibitions under federal civil rights laws at https://www.hhs.gov/ocr/about-us/contact-us/index.html or call 1-800-368-1019 or tdd 1-800-537-7697.data management and sharingnote: the nih policy for data management and sharing is effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023.consistent with the nih policy for data management and sharing, when data management and sharing is applicable to the award, recipients will be required to adhere to the data management and sharing requirements as outlined in the nih grants policy statement. upon the approval of a data management and sharing plan, it is required for recipients to implement the plan as described.a final rppr, invention statement, and the expenditure data portion of the federal financial report are required for closeout of an award, as described in the nih grants policy statement.the federal funding accountability and transparency act of 2006 (transparency act), includes a requirement for awardees of federal grants to report information about first-tier subawards and executive compensation under federal assistance awards issued in fy2011 or later. all awardees of applicable nih grants and cooperative agreementsare required to report to the federal subaward reporting system (fsrs) available at www.fsrs.gov on all subawards over $25,000. see the nih grants policy statement for additional information on this reporting requirement.in accordance with the regulatory requirements provided at 45 cfr 75.113 and appendix xii to 45 cfr part 75, recipients that have currently active federal grants, cooperative agreements, and procurement contracts from all federal awarding agencies with a cumulative total value greater than $10,000,000 for any period of time during the period of performance of a federal award, must report and maintain the currency of information reported in the system for award management (sam)about civil, criminal, and administrative proceedings in connection with the award or performance of a federal award that reached final disposition within the most recent five-year period. the recipient must also make semiannual disclosures regarding such proceedings.proceedings information will be made publicly available in the designated integrity and performance system (currently fapiis). this is a statutory requirement under section 872 of public law 110-417, as amended (41 u.s.c. 2313). as required by section 3010 of public law 111-212, all information posted in the designated integrity and performance system on or after april 15, 2011, except past performance reviews required for federal procurement contracts, will be publicly available. full reporting requirements and procedures are found in appendix xii to 45 cfr part 75 – award term and conditions for recipient integrity and performance matters.in carrying out its stewardship of human resource-related programs, the nih may request information essential to an assessment of the effectiveness of this program from databases and from participants themselves. participants may be contacted after the completion of this award for periodic updates on various aspects of their employment history, publications, support from research grants or contracts, honors and awards, professional activities, and other information helpful in evaluating the impact of the program.we encourage inquiries concerning this funding opportunity and welcome the opportunity to answer questions from potential applicants.era service desk (questions regarding assist, era commons, application errors and warnings, documenting system problems that threaten on-time submission, and post-submission issues)finding help online:http://grants.nih.gov/support/(preferred method of contact) telephone: 301-402-7469 or 866-504-9552 (toll free)general grants information (questions regarding application processes and nih grant resources) email:grantsinfo@nih.gov(preferred method of contact) telephone: 301-637-3015grants.gov customer support(questions regarding grants.gov registration and workspace) contact center telephone: 800-518-4726 email:support@grants.govthe office of behavioral and social sciences research (obssr) facilitates oppnet on behalf of nih but cannot accept assignment of applications or manage awards that are funded. please contact one of the ic-based contacts below for inquiries regarding the suitability of the proposed project for this foa and the ic's research portfolio.william elwood, phd office of behavioral and social sciences research (obssr) telephone: 301-402-0116 email: william.elwood@nih.govlanay mudd, phd national center for complementary and integrative health (nccih) telephone: 301-594-9346 email: lanay.mudd@nih.govsusan lim, ph.d center for cancer training national cancer institute (nci) telephone: 240-276-5630 email: lims@mail.nih.govgina tesauro, msw behavioral research program national cancer institute (nci) telephone: 240-276-6786 email:gina.tesauro@nih.govivana grakalic, phd national institute on alcohol abuse and alcoholism (niaaa) telephone: 301-443-7600 email: igrakalic@mail.nih.govashlee van't veer, phd national institute of mental health (nimh) telephone: 301-443-3107 email: ashlee.van'tveer@nih.govjudith arroyo, phd national institute on minority health and health disparities (nimhd) telephone: 301-402-0717 email: jarroyo@mail.nih.govexamine your era commons account for review assignment and contact information (information appears two weeks after the submission due date).carol perry national cancer institute (nci) telephone: 240-276-6282 email:perryc@mail.nih.gov shelley carow national center for complementary and integrative health (nccih) telephone: 301-594-3788 email:carows@mail.nih.govjudy fox national institute on alcohol abuse and alcoholism (niaaa) telephone: 301-443-4704 email:jfox@mail.nih.govalicia heslip national institute of environmental health sciences (niehs) telephone: 919-541-4907 email:alicia.heslip@nih.gov terri jarosik national institute of mental health (nimh) telephone: 301-443-3858 email:tjarosik@mail.nih.govpriscilla grant, jd national institute on minority health and health disparities (nimhd) telephone: 301-594-8412 email:grantp@mail.nih.govrecently issued trans-nih policy notices may affect your application submission. a full list of policy notices published by nih is provided in the nih guide for grants and contracts. all awards are subject to the terms and conditions, cost principles, and other considerations described in the nih grants policy statement. weekly toc for this announcement nih funding opportunities and noticesnote: for help accessing pdf, rtf, ms word, excel, powerpoint, audio or video files, see help downloading files.