NCI Mentored Clinical Scientist Research Career Development Award to Promote Diversity (K08 Independent Clinical Trial Not Allowed)
https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/pa-files/PAR-21-300.html
national institutes of health (nih)national cancer institute (nci)nci mentored clinical scientist research career development award to promote diversity (k08 - independent clinical trial not allowed)k08 clinical investigator award (cia)reissue of par-18-337see notices of special interest associated with this funding opportunitypar-21-300par-21-299 - nci mentored clinical scientist research career development award to promote diversity (k08 clinical trial required)see section iii. 3. additional information on eligibility.93.398the purpose of the nci mentored clinical scientist career development award (k08) program is to prepare individuals for careers that have a significant impact on the health-related research needs of the nation. this program represents the continuation of a long-standing nih program that provides support and protected time to individuals with a clinical doctoral degree or a health professional doctoral degree for an intensive, supervised research career development experience in the fields of biomedical and behavioral research, including translational research. this nci-sponsored k08 award is specifically designed to enhance the diversity in the nci-funded cancer research workforce by supporting eligible clinical scientists from diverse backgrounds, including groups that have been shown to be nationally underrepresented in health-related sciences and for those who are committed to a career in basic biomedical, behavioral or translational cancer research, including research on cancer health disparities. the expectation is that through this sustained period of research career development and training, awardees will develop enhanced research capabilities for cancer research careers and be better prepared to compete for research project grants (e.g. r03, r21, or r01) funding.this funding opportunity announcement (foa) is designed specifically for applicants proposing research that does not involve leading an independent clinical trial, a clinical trial feasibility study, or a separate ancillary clinical trial. applicants to this foa are permitted to propose research experience in a clinical trial led by a mentor or co-mentor. applicants proposing a clinical trial or a separate ancillary clinical trial as lead investigator, should apply to the companion foa (par-21-299).september 10, 2021september 12, 2021not applicablestandard dates apply.all applications are due by 5:00 pm local time of applicant organization. all types of non-aids applications allowed for this funding opportunity announcement are due on the listed date(s). applications are encouraged to apply early to allow adequate time to make any corrections to errors found in the application during the submission process by the due date.not applicablestandard dates applystandard dates applystandard dates applyseptember 8, 2024not applicableit is critical that applicants follow the career development (k) instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, except where instructed to do otherwise (in this foa or in a notice from the nih guide for grants and contracts). conformance to all requirements (both in the application guide and the foa) is required and strictly enforced. applicants must read and follow all application instructions in the application guide as well as any program-specific instructions noted in section iv. when the program-specific instructions deviate from those in the application guide, follow the program-specific instructions. applications that do not comply with these instructions may be delayed or not accepted for review.there are several options available to submit your application through grants.gov to nih and department of health and human services partners. you must use one of these submission options to access the application forms for this opportunity.part 1. overview information part 2. full text of the announcementsection i. funding opportunity description section ii. award information section iii. eligibility information section iv. application and submission information section v. application review information section vi. award administration information section vii. agency contacts section viii. other informationthe overall goal of the nih research career development program is to help ensure that a diverse pool of highly trained scientists is available in appropriate scientific disciplines to address the nation's biomedical, behavioral, and clinical research needs. nih institutes and centers (ics) support a variety of mentored and non-mentored career development award programs designed to foster the transition of new investigators to research independence and to support established investigators in achieving specific objectives. candidates should review the different career development (k) award programs to determine the best program to support their goals. more information about career programs may be found at the nih research training and career development website.the objective of the nih mentored clinical scientist research career development award (k08) is to provide salary and research support for a sustained period of "protected time" (3-5 years) to support didactic study and/or mentored research for individuals with clinical doctoral degrees (e.g., md, dds, dmd, do, dc, od, nd, dvm, pharmd, or phd in clinical disciplines). the k08 provides support for an intensive, mentored research career development experience in biomedical or behavioral research, including translational research. for the purpose of this award, translational research is defined as the application of basic research discoveries toward the diagnosis, management, and prevention of human disease.the purpose of the nci mentored clinical scientist research career development award to promote diversity (k08) program is to enhance the pool of qualified individuals for careers that have a significant impact on the health-related research needs of the nation. this program represents the continuation of a long-standing nih program that provides support and protected time to individuals with a clinical doctoral degree or a health professional doctoral degree for an intensive, supervised research career development experience in the fields of basic biomedical, clinical, behavioral, translational, or patient-oriented (por) cancer research, including research on cancer health disparities. this nci-sponsored k08 award is specifically designed to enhance the diversity in the nci-funded cancer research workforce by supporting eligible scientists from diverse backgrounds, including groups that have been shown to be nationally underrepresented in health-related sciences.the research criteria for the k08 award include por which is defined as research conducted with human subjects (or on material of human origin such as tissues, specimens and cognitive phenomena) for which an investigator (or colleague) directly interacts with human subjects. this area of research includes: 1) mechanisms of human disease; 2) therapeutic interventions; 3) clinical trials; 4) the development of new technologies.substantial national and local efforts are directed toward a reduction in cancer morbidity and mortality in the general population. however, in spite of these efforts, the american cancer society estimates that in 2021, approximately 1.9 million new cancer cases will be diagnosed, and 608,570 cancer deaths will occur. past patterns of cancer incidence and mortality predict that the disproportionate increase in u.s. cancer incidence and mortality will be experienced by underserved populations (cancer facts & figures 2021). specifically, cancer rates for stomach, liver, gall bladder, and cervix are higher in hispanics than in non-hispanic whites (cancer facts and statistics). stomach and liver cancer incidence and death rates are more than twice as high in asian american/pacific islanders as in caucasians, and mortality rates from prostate, stomach, and cervical cancers among african americans are more than twice those in caucasians.the national science foundation reports that blacks or african americans, hispanics or latinos, american indians or alaska natives, native hawaiians and other pacific islanders are underrepresented at many career stages in health-related sciences on a national basis (see the report women, minorities, and persons with disabilities in science and engineering, 2021). individuals from these groups are under-represented when compared to their age-cohorts in science-baccalaureate earners, among science-phd earners, and in the biomedical workforce. moreover, among science and engineering doctorate holders with full-time faculty employment at any four-year institution, those from underrepresented racial and ethnic groups were less likely to receive federal grants or contracts than their white counterparts.the americans with disabilities act (ada) defines an individual with a disability as a person with a physical or mental impairment that substantially limits one or more major life activities. in 2010, the bureau of the census reported that nearly 20 percent of the united states population had a disability. the national center for education statistics (nces) reported that in 2012, 11 percent of college students had a disability, and 34 percent of undergraduates with disabilities are from underrepresented racial and ethnic groups. according to the council of graduate schools and statistics from nces, in 2008 about seven percent of all doctoral students and about six percent of doctoral students in health or life science programs had a disability.according to the 2014 physician-scientist workforce working group (psw-wg) report, "nearly three-quarters of the md rpg awardees were white and another one in five were asian. although there has been significant growth for asian and hispanic awardees over the past decade, there has been less growth for african-americans and native americans. the lack of diversity of the physician-scientist workforce is a source of very serious concern to the nih and to the professions. other groups are addressing these difficult issues; the psw-wg did not attempt to duplicate their efforts, and endorses strong investment in improving minority participation in scientific leadership. see, https://acd.od.nih.gov/documents/reports/psw_report_acd_06042014.pdf; https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/notice-files/not-od-17-101.html.since the late 1970s, leaders of medical institutions, universities, academic centers, biomedical research institutions, and various other groups, notably, the american society of clinical oncology (asco) and the national academy of sciences, have expressed increasing concern about the shortage of clinical researchers such as oncologists, clinical nurse investigators, end-of-life, and hospice physician-scientists, particularly those from underrepresented racial and ethnic groups. for example, in "the state of cancer care in america, 2017," asco stated: "the oncology workforce continues to struggle with adequate representation of racial and ethnic minorities." asco stated further that "these workforce trends pose potential challenges to meeting rising and changing demands for cancer care across the country"(see: http://ascopubs.org/doi/pdf/10.1200/jop.2016.020743.)nci is committed to making sure that all americans share equally in the medical advances that result from cancer research, and that current disparities in the burden of several diseases, including cancers, are reduced or eliminated. as part of that mission, nci is helping to build a diverse workforce for the biomedical sciences—a critical step in reducing the burden of cancer for an increasingly diverse america. this includes providing a smoother path towards careers in science and medicine as an important means to attract and engage the nation's most talented students, especially those from backgrounds nationally underrepresented in cancer research and care.research shows that diverse teams working together and capitalizing on innovative ideas and distinct perspectives outperform homogenous teams. scientists and trainees from diverse backgrounds and life experiences bring different perspectives, creativity, and individual enterprise to address complex scientific problems. there are many benefits that flow from a diverse nih-supported scientific workforce, including: fostering scientific innovation, enhancing global competitiveness, contributing to robust learning environments, improving the quality of the researchers, advancing the likelihood that underserved or health disparity populations participate in, and benefit from health research, and enhancing public trust.promoting diversity in the extramural scientific workforce is critical to the success of nih/nci mission, and is consistent with the mandates of the 21st century cures act. while scientific workforce diversity supports the nih/nci mission (see, not-od-20-031), expanding the pool of investigators from nationally underrepresented backgrounds in the biomedical research workforce remains an elusive goal (see: policy supporting the next generation researchers initiative, not-od-17-101).the program will provide successful candidates with professional development workshop opportunities and mock review experiences to enhance their knowledge and understanding of the nih peer review system and to develop the skills required to prepare competitive grant applications to nih and other funding agencies. to this end, the nci will:the k08 award may be used by candidates with different levels of prior research training and at different stages in their career development. for example, a candidate with limited experience in a given field of research may use an award to support a career development experience that includes a designated period of didactic training followed by a period of mentored research experience. a candidate with previous research experience and training may not require extensive additional didactic preparation, and may use an award to support a career development experience that focuses on an intensive, supervised research experience.the primary objectives of this program are to:note: this funding opportunity announcement (foa) is designed specifically for applicants proposing research that does not involve leading an independent clinical trial, a clinical trial feasibility study, or a separate ancillary clinical trial. applicants proposing a clinical trial or a separate ancillary clinical trial as lead investigator, should apply to the companion foa (par-21-299). applicants to this foa are permitted to propose research experience in a clinical trial led by a mentor or co-mentor.see section viii. other information for award authorities and regulations.grant: a support mechanism providing money to an eligible entity to carry out an approved project.new resubmissionthe oer glossary and the sf424 (r&r) application guide provide details on these application types. only those application types listed here are allowed for this foa.not allowed: only accepting applications that do not propose clinical trialsnote: applicants may propose to gain experience in a clinical trial led by a mentor/co-mentor as part of their research career development.need help determining whether you are doing a clinical trial?the number of awards is contingent upon nih appropriations and the submission of a sufficient number of meritorious applications.award budgets are composed of salary and other program-related expenses, as described below.the total project period may not exceed 5 years.nci will contribute up to the legislative salary cap per year toward the salary of the career award recipient. further guidance on budgeting for career development salaries is provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.the total salary, however, may not exceed the legislatively mandated salary cap. see: http://grants.nih.gov/grants/policy/salcap_summary.htm.nih will contribute $ 50,000 per year toward the research development costs of the award recipient, which must be justified and consistent with the stage of development of the candidate and the proportion of time to be spent in research or career development activities. these funds may be used for the following expenses: (a) tuition and fees related to career development; (b) research-related expenses, such as supplies, equipment and technical personnel; (c) travel to research meetings or training; and (d) statistical services including personnel and computer time.salary for mentors, secretarial and administrative assistants, etc. is not allowed.indirect costs (also known as facilities & administrative [f&a] costs) are reimbursed at 8% of modified total direct costs.nih grant policies as described in the nih grants policy statement will apply to the applications submitted and awards made from this foa.higher education institutionsthe following types of higher education institutions are always encouraged to apply for nih support as public or private institutions of higher education:nonprofits other than institutions of higher educationfor-profit organizationsgovernmentsothernon-domestic (non-u.s.) entities (foreign institutions) are not eligible to apply. non-domestic (non-u.s.) components of u.s. organizations are not eligible to apply. foreign components, as defined in the nih grants policy statement, are not allowed.applicant organizationsapplicant organizations must complete and maintain the following registrations as described in the sf 424 (r&r) application guide to be eligible to apply for or receive an award. all registrations must be completed prior to the application being submitted. registration can take 6 weeks or more, so applicants should begin the registration process as soon as possible. the nih policy on late submission of grant applications states that failure to complete registrations in advance of a due date is not a valid reason for a late submission.program directors/principal investigators (pd(s)/pi(s))all pd(s)/pi(s) must have an era commons account. pd(s)/pi(s) should work with their organizational officials to either create a new account or to affiliate their existing account with the applicant organization in era commons. if the pd/pi is also the organizational signing official, they must have two distinct era commons accounts, one for each role. obtaining an era commons account can take up to 2 weeks.all pd(s)/pi(s) must be registered with orcid. the personal profile associated with the pd(s)/pi(s) era commons account must be linked to a valid orcid id. for more information on linking an orcid id to an era commons personal profile see the orcid topic in our era commons online help.any candidate who meets the eligibility (see enhancing diversity, below) and possesses the skills, knowledge, and resources necessary to carry out the proposed research as the program director/principal investigator (pd/pi) is invited to work with his/her mentor and organization to develop an application for support. multiple pds/pis are not allowed.by the time of award, the individual must be a citizen or a non-citizen national of the united states or have been lawfully admitted for permanent residence (i.e., possess a currently valid permanent resident card uscis form i-551, or other legal verification of such status.)current and former pds/pis on nih research project (r01), program project (p01), center grants (p50), or project leads of program project (p01), or center grants (p50), other major individual career development awards (e.g., dp5, k01, k07, k08, k22, k23, k25, k76, k99/r00), or the equivalent are not eligible. current and former pds/pis of an nih small grant (r03), exploratory/developmental grant (r21/r33), planning grant (r34/u34), dissertation award (r36), or sbir/sttr (r41, r42, r43, r44) remain eligible, as do pd/pis of transition scholar (k38) awards and individuals appointed to institutional k programs (k12, kl2).candidates for the k08 award must have a clinical doctoral degree. such degrees include, but are not limited to, the md, do, dds, dmd, od, dc, pharmd, nd (doctor of naturopathy), and dvm. individuals with the phd or other doctoral degree in clinical disciplines such as clinical psychology, nursing, clinical genetics, speech-language pathology, audiology or rehabilitation are also eligible. individuals holding the phd in a non-clinical discipline who are certified to perform clinical duties should contact the national cancer institute (nci) concerning their eligibility for a k08 award.enhancing diversityin spite of tremendous advancements in scientific research, information, educational and research opportunities are not equally available to all. nih encourages institutions to diversify their student and faculty populations to enhance the participation of individuals from groups that are underrepresented in the biomedical, clinical, behavioral and social sciences (not-od-20-031), such as:a. individuals from racial and ethnic groups that have been shown by the national science foundation to be underrepresented in health-related sciences on a national basis (see data at http://www.nsf.gov/statistics/showpub.cfm?topid=2&subid=27) and the report women, minorities, and persons with disabilities in science and engineering). the following racial and ethnic groups have been shown to be underrepresented in biomedical research: blacks or african americans, hispanics or latinos, american indians or alaska natives, native hawaiians and other pacific islanders. in addition, it is recognized that underrepresentation can vary from setting to setting; individuals from racial or ethnic groups that can be demonstrated convincingly to be underrepresented by the grantee institution should be encouraged to participate in nih programs to enhance diversity. for more information on racial and ethnic categories and definitions, see the omb revisions to the standards for classification of federal data on race and ethnicity (https://www.govinfo.gov/content/pkg/fr-1997-10-30/html/97-28653.htm).b. individuals with disabilities, who are defined as those with a physical or mental impairment that substantially limits one or more major life activities, as described in the americans with disabilities act of 1990, as amended. see nsf data at, https://www.nsf.gov/statistics/2017/nsf17310/static/data/tab7-5.pdf.c. individuals from disadvantaged backgrounds, defined as those who meet two or more of the following criteria:1. were or currently are homeless, as defined by the mckinney-vento homeless assistance act (definition: https://nche.ed.gov/mckinney-vento/);2. were or currently are in the foster care system, as defined by the administration for children and families (definition: https://www.acf.hhs.gov/cb/focus-areas/foster-care);3. were eligible for the federal free and reduced lunch program for two or more years (definition: https://www.fns.usda.gov/school-meals/income-eligibility-guidelines);4. have/had no parents or legal guardians who completed a bachelor’s degree (see https://nces.ed.gov/pubs2018/2018009.pdf);5. were or currently are eligible for federal pell grants (definition: https://www2.ed.gov/programs/fpg/eligibility.html);6. received support from the special supplemental nutrition program for women, infants and children (wic) as a parent or child (definition: https://www.fns.usda.gov/wic/wic-eligibility-requirements).7. grew up in one of the following areas: a) a u.s. rural area, as designated by the health resources and services administration (hrsa) rural health grants eligibility analyzer (https://data.hrsa.gov/tools/rural-health), or b) a centers for medicare and medicaid services-designated low-income and health professional shortage areas (qualifying zipcodes are included in the file). only one of the two possibilities in #7 can be used as a criterion for the disadvantaged background definition.students from low socioeconomic (ses) status backgrounds have been shown to obtain bachelor’s and advanced degrees at significantly lower rates than students from middle and high ses groups (see https://nces.ed.gov/programs/coe/indicator_tva.asp), and are subsequently less likely to be represented in biomedical research. for background see department of education data at, https://nces.ed.gov/; https://nces.ed.gov/programs/coe/indicator_tva.asp; https://www2.ed.gov/rschstat/research/pubs/advancing-diversity-inclusion.pdf.for the purposes of this funding opportunity announcement, only individuals from diverse backgrounds, including the categories listed in notice of nih’s interest in diversity are encouraged to apply for support under this program. 2. cost sharing this foa does not require cost sharing as defined in the nih grants policy statement. 3. additional information on eligibility number of applications applicant organizations may submit more than one application, provided that each application is scientifically distinct, and each is from a different candidate. the nih will not accept duplicate or highly overlapping applications under review at the same time. an individual may not have two or more competing nih career development applications pending review concurrently. in addition, nih will not accept: a new (a0) application that is submitted before issuance of the summary statement from the review of an overlapping new (a0) or resubmission (a1) application. a resubmission (a1) application that is submitted before issuance of the summary statement from the review of the previous new (a0) application. an application that has substantial overlap with another application pending appeal of initial peer review (see not-od-11-101). candidates may submit research project grant (rpg) applications concurrently with the k application. however, any concurrent rpg application may not have substantial scientific and/or budgetary overlap with the career award application. k award recipients are encouraged to obtain funding from nih or other federal sources either as a pd/pi on a competing research grant award or cooperative agreement, or as project leader on a competing multi-project award as described in not-od-08-065. level of effort at the time of award, the candidate must have a “full-time” appointment at the applicant institution. candidates are required to commit a minimum of nine person months of effort (i.e., 75% of full-time professional effort) to their program of career development. candidates may engage in other duties as part of the professional effort not covered by this award, as long as such duties do not interfere with or detract from the proposed career development program. candidates who have va appointments may not consider part of the va effort toward satisfying the full time requirement at the applicant institution. candidates with va appointments should contact the staff person in the relevant institute or center prior to preparing an application to discuss their eligibility. after the receipt of the award, adjustments to the required level of effort may be made in certain circumstances. see not-od-09-036 for more details. mentor(s) before submitting the application, the candidate must identify a mentor who will supervise the proposed career development and research experience. the mentor should be an active investigator in the area of the proposed research and be committed both to the career development of the candidate and to the direct supervision of the candidate's research. the mentor must document the availability of sufficient research support and facilities for high-quality research. candidates are encouraged to identify more than one mentor, i.e., a mentoring team (or advisory committee), if this is deemed advantageous for providing expert advice in all aspects of the research career development program. in such cases, one individual must be identified as the primary mentor who will coordinate the candidate's research. the candidate must work with the mentor(s) in preparing the application. the mentor, or a member of the mentoring team, should have a successful track record of mentoring individuals at the candidate's career stage. where feasible, women, individuals from underrepresented racial and ethnic groups, and individuals with disabilities should be involved as mentors to serve as role models. the mentor(s) or mentoring team must demonstrate appropriate expertise, experience, and ability to guide the applicant in the organization, management and implementation of the proposed research and clinical trial. institutional environment the applicant institution must have a strong, well-established record of research and career development activities and faculty qualified to serve as mentors in biomedical, behavioral, or clinical research. section iv. application and submission information 1. requesting an application package the application forms package specific to this opportunity must be accessed through assist, grants.gov workspace or an institutional system-to-system solution. links to apply using assist or grants.gov workspace are available in part 1 of this foa. see your administrative office for instructions if you plan to use an institutional system-to-system solution. 2. content and form of application submission it is critical that applicants follow the career development (k) instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, except where instructed in this funding opportunity announcement to do otherwise. conformance to the requirements in the application guide is required and strictly enforced. applications that are out of compliance with these instructions may be delayed or not accepted for review. page limitations all page limitations described in the sf424 (r&r) application guide and the table of page limits must be followed. instructions for application submission note: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023, the data management and sharing (dms) plan will be attached in the other plan(s) attachment in forms-h and subsequent application forms packages. for due dates on or before january 24, 2023, the data sharing plan and genomic data sharing plan gds) will continue to be attached in the resource sharing plan attachment in forms-g application forms packages. the following section supplements the instructions found in the sf 424 (r&r) application guide and should be used for preparing an application to this foa. sf424(r&r) cover all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed. sf424(r&r) project/performance site locations all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed. other project information all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed, with the following additional instructions: sf424(r&r) senior/key person profile expanded all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed. important reminder: the personal profile associated with the era commons username entered in the credential field for the pd/pi (candidate) must include an orcid id. for more information on linking an orcid id to an era commons personal profile see the orcid topic in our era commons online help. r&r budget all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed. phs 398 cover page supplement all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed. phs 398 career development award supplemental form other plan(s): note: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023, the data management and sharing plan will be attached in the other plan(s) attachment in forms-h and subsequent application forms packages. for due dates on or before january 24, 2023, the data sharing plan and genomic data sharing plan gds) will continue to be attached in the resource sharing plan attachment in forms-g application forms packages. all applicants planning research (funded or conducted in whole or in part by nih) that results in the generation of scientific data are required to comply with the instructions for the data management and sharing plan. all applications, regardless of the amount of direct costs requested for any one year, must address a data management and sharing plan. the phs 398 career development award supplemental form is comprised of the following sections: candidate research plan other candidate information mentor, co-mentor, consultant, collaborators environment & institutional commitment to the candidate other research plan sections appendix all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed, with the following additional instructions: candidate section all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed, with the following additional instructions: candidate information and goals for career development candidate’s background describe the candidate's commitment to a health-related research career. describe all the candidate's professional responsibilities in the recipient institution and elsewhere and describe their relationship to the proposed activities on the career award. describe prior training and how it relates to the objectives and long-term career plans of the candidate. describe the candidate's research efforts to this point in his/her research career, including any publications, prior research interests and experience. provide evidence of the candidate's potential to develop into an independent investigator. career goals and objectives describe a systematic plan: (1) that shows a logical progression from prior research and training experiences to the research and career development experiences that will occur during the career award period and then to independent investigator status; and (2) that justifies the need for further career development to become an independent investigator. as applicable, candidates proposing patient-oriented research (por) must demonstrate they have received training or will participate in courses such as: data management, epidemiology, study design (including statistics), hypothesis development, drug development, etc., as well as the legal and ethical issues associated with research on human subjects. candidate’s plan for career development during award period the candidate and the mentor(s) are jointly responsible for the preparation of the career development plan. a career development timeline is often helpful. the didactic (if any) and the research aspects of the plan must be designed to develop the necessary knowledge and research skills in scientific areas relevant to the candidate's career goals. describe the professional responsibilities/activities including other research projects beyond the minimum required 9 person-months (75% full-time professional effort) commitment to the career award. explain how these responsibilities/activities will help ensure career progression to achieve independence as an investigator. research plan section all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed, with the following additional instructions: research strategy a sound research project that is consistent with the candidate’s level of research development and objectives of his/her career development plan must be provided. the research description should demonstrate the quality of the candidate’s research thus far and also the novelty, significance, creativity and approach, as well as the ability of the candidate to carry out the research. the application must also describe the relationship between the mentor’s research and the candidate’s proposed research plan. if more than one mentor is proposed, the respective areas of expertise and responsibility should be described. if the applicant is proposing to gain experience in a clinical trial, ancillary study to a clinical trial or a clinical trial feasibility study as part of his or her research career development, describe the relationship of the proposed research project to the clinical trial. training in the responsible conduct of research all applications must include a plan to fulfill nih requirements for instruction in the responsible conduct of research (rcr). see sf424 (r&r) application guide for instructions. mentor, co-mentor, consultant, collaborators section all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed, with the following additional instructions: the candidate must name a primary mentor who, together with the candidate, is responsible for planning, directing, monitoring, and executing the proposed program. the candidate may also nominate co-mentors as appropriate to the goals of the program. the mentor should be recognized as an accomplished investigator in the proposed research area and have a track record of success in training and placing independent investigators. the mentor should have sufficient independent research support to cover the costs of the proposed research project in excess of the allowable costs of this award. include a statement that the candidate will commit at least 9 person-months (75% of full-time professional effort) to the career development program and related career development activities. the application must include a statement from the mentor providing: 1) information on his/her research qualifications and previous experience as a research supervisor; 2) a plan that describes the nature of the supervision and mentoring that will occur during the proposed award period; 3) a plan for career progression for the candidate to move from the mentored stage of his/her career to independent research investigator status during the project period of the award; and 4) a plan for monitoring the candidate’s research, publications, and progression towards independence. similar information must be provided by any co-mentor. if more than one co-mentor is proposed, the respective areas of expertise and responsibility of each should be described. co-mentors should clearly describe how they will coordinate the mentoring of the candidate. if any co-mentor is not located at the sponsoring institution, a statement should be provided describing the mechanism(s) and frequency of communication with the candidate, including the frequency of face-to-face meetings. the primary mentor must agree to provide annual evaluations of the candidate's progress as required in the annual progress report. if the applicant is proposing to gain experience in a clinical trial as part of his or her research career development, the mentor or a member of the mentoring team must include a statement to document leadership of the clinical trial, and appropriate expertise to guide the applicant in any proposed clinical trials research experience. letters of support from collaborators, contributors and consultants signed statements must be provided by all collaborators and/or consultants confirming their participation in the project and describing their specific roles. collaborators and consultants do not need to provide their biographical sketches unless also listed as senior/key personnel. however, information should be provided clearly documenting the appropriate expertise in the proposed areas of consulting/collaboration. advisory committee members (if applicable): signed statements must be provided by each member of the proposed advisory committee. these statements should confirm their participation, describe their specific roles and plan for communication with the candidate, and document the expertise they will contribute. unless also listed as senior/key personnel, these individuals do not need to provide their biographical sketches. environmental and institutional commitment to the candidate all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed, with the following additional instructions: description of institutional environment the sponsoring institution must document a strong, well-established research and career development program related to the candidate's area of interest, including a high-quality research environment with key faculty members and other investigators capable of productive collaboration with the candidate. describe how the institutional research environment is particularly suited for the development of the candidate's research career and the pursuit of the proposed research plan. describe the resources and facilities that will be available to the candidate. institutional commitment to the candidate’s research career development the sponsoring institution must provide a statement of commitment to the candidate's development into a productive, independent investigator and to meeting the requirements of this award. it should be clear that the institutional commitment to the candidate is not contingent upon receipt of this career award. provide assurances that the candidate will be able to devote the required effort to activities under this award. the remaining effort should be devoted to activities related to the development of the candidate’s career as an independent scientist. provide assurances that the candidate will have access to appropriate office and laboratory space, equipment, and other resources and facilities (including access to clinical and/or other research populations) to carry out the proposed research plan. provide assurance that appropriate time and support will be available for any proposed mentor(s) and/or other staff consistent with the career development plan. appendix limited items are allowed in the appendix. follow all instructions for the appendix as described in the sf424 (r&r) application guide; any instructions provided here are in addition to the sf424 (r&r) application guide instructions. phs human subjects and clinical trials information when involving human subjects research, clinical research, and/or nih-defined clinical trials (and when applicable, clinical trials research experience) follow all instructions for the phs human subjects and clinical trials information form in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, with the following additional instructions: if you answered “yes” to the question “are human subjects involved?” on the r&r other project information form, you must include at least one human subjects study record using the study record: phs human subjects and clinical trials information form or a delayed onset study record. if gaining research experience in a clinical trial led by a mentor/co-mentor, provide the mentor's clinicaltrials.gov identifier (i.e., nct number). study record: phs human subjects and clinical trials information all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed with the following additional instructions: do not complete section 4 – protocol synopsis information or section 5 - other clinical trial-related attachments. delayed onset study all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed. phs assignment request form all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed. reference letters candidates must carefully follow the sf424 (r&r) application guide, including the time period for when reference letters will be accepted. applications lacking the appropriate required reference letters will not be reviewed. this is a separate process from submitting an application electronically. reference letters are submitted directly through the era commons submit referee information link and not through grants.gov. 3. unique entity identifier and system for award management (sam) see part 1. section iii.1 for information regarding the requirement for obtaining a unique entity identifier and for completing and maintaining active registrations in system for award management (sam), nato commercial and government entity (ncage) code (if applicable), era commons, and grants.gov. 4. submission dates and times part i. overview information contains information about key dates and times. applicants are encouraged to submit applications before the due date to ensure they have time to make any application corrections that might be necessary for successful submission. when a submission date falls on a weekend or federal holiday, the application deadline is automatically extended to the next business day. organizations must submit applications to grants.gov (the online portal to find and apply for grants across all federal agencies) using assist or other electronic submission systems. applicants must then complete the submission process by tracking the status of the application in the era commons, nih’s electronic system for grants administration. nih and grants.gov systems check the application against many of the application instructions upon submission. errors must be corrected and a changed/corrected application must be submitted to grants.gov on or before the application due date. and time. if a changed/corrected application is submitted after the deadline, the application will be considered late. applications that miss the due date and time are subjected to the nih policy on late application submission. applicants are responsible for viewing their application before the due date in the era commons to ensure accurate and successful submission. information on the submission process and a definition of on-time submission are provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide. 5. intergovernmental review (e.o. 12372) this initiative is not subject to intergovernmental review. 6. funding restrictions all nih awards are subject to the terms and conditions, cost principles, and other considerations described in the nih grants policy statement. pre-award costs are allowable only as described in the nih grants policy statement. 7. other submission requirements and information applications must be submitted electronically following the instructions described in the sf424 (r&r) application guide. paper applications will not be accepted. applicants must complete all required registrations before the application due date. section iii. eligibility information contains information about registration. for assistance with your electronic application or for more information on the electronic submission process, visit how to apply – application guide. if you encounter a system issue beyond your control that threatens your ability to complete the submission process on-time, you must follow the dealing with system issues guidance. for assistance with application submission contact the application submission contacts in section vii. important reminders: all pd(s)/pi(s) must include their era commons id in the credential field of the senior/key person profile component of the sf424(r&r) application package. failure to register in the commons and to include a valid pd/pi commons id in the credential field will prevent the successful submission of an electronic application to nih. the applicant organization must ensure that the duns number it provides on the application is the same number used in the organization’s profile in the era commons and for the system for award management (sam). additional information may be found in the sf424 (r&r) application guide. see more tips for avoiding common errors. upon receipt, applications will be evaluated for completeness and compliance with application instructions by the center for scientific review, nih. applications that are incomplete or non-compliant will not be reviewed. post submission materials applicants are required to follow the instructions for post-submission materials, as described in the policy. any instructions provided here are in addition to the instructions in the policy. section v. application review information 1. criteria note: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023, the data sharing plan and genomic data sharing plan (gds) as part of the resource sharing plan will not be evaluated at time of review. only the review criteria described below will be considered in the review process. applications submitted to the nih in support of the nih mission are evaluated for scientific and technical merit through the nih peer review system. overall impact reviewers should provide their assessment of the likelihood that the proposed career development and research plan will enhance the candidate’s potential for a productive, independent scientific research career in a health-related field, taking into consideration the criteria below in determining the overall impact score. scored review criteria reviewers will consider each of the review criteria below in the determination of scientific merit, and give a separate score for each. an application does not need to be strong in all categories to be judged likely to have major scientific impact. candidate does the candidate have the potential to develop as an independent and productive researcher? are the candidate's prior training and research experience appropriate for this award? is the candidate’s academic, clinical (if relevant), and research record of high quality? is there evidence of the candidate’s commitment to meeting the program objectives to become an independent investigator in research? do the reference letters address the above review criteria, and do they provide evidence that the candidate has a high potential for becoming an independent investigator? career development plan/career goals and objectives what is the likelihood that the plan will contribute substantially to the scientific development of the candidate and lead to scientific independence? are the candidate's prior training and research experience appropriate for this award? are the content, scope, phasing, and duration of the career development plan appropriate when considered in the context of prior training/research experience and the stated training and research objectives for achieving research independence? are there adequate plans for monitoring and evaluating the candidate’s research and career development progress? if proposed, will the clinical trial experience contribute to the applicant's research career development? research plan is the prior research that serves as the key support for the proposed project rigorous? has the candidate included plans to address weaknesses in the rigor of prior research that serves as the key support for the proposed project? has the candidate presented strategies to ensure a robust and unbiased approach, as appropriate for the work proposed? has the candidate presented adequate plans to address relevant biological variables, such as sex, for studies in vertebrate animals or human subjects? are the proposed research question, design, and methodology of significant scientific and technical merit? is the research plan relevant to the candidate’s research career objectives? is the research plan appropriate to the candidate's stage of research development and as a vehicle for developing the research skills described in the career development plan? will the proposed research lead to an independent line of research for the candidate? if proposed, will the clinical trial experience contribute to the research project? mentor(s), co-mentor(s), consultant(s), collaborator(s) are the qualifications of the mentor(s) in the area of the proposed research appropriate? does the mentor(s) adequately address the candidate’s potential and his/her strengths and areas needing improvement? is there adequate description of the quality and extent of the mentor’s proposed role in providing guidance and advice to the candidate? is the mentor’s description of the elements of the research career development activities, including formal course work adequate? is there evidence of the mentor’s, consultant’s, and/or collaborator’s previous experience in fostering the development of independent investigators? is there evidence of the mentor's current research productivity and peer-reviewed support? is active/pending support for the proposed research project appropriate and adequate? are there adequate plans for monitoring and evaluating the career development awardee’s progress toward independence? if the applicant is proposing to gain experience in a clinical trial as part of his or her research career development, is there evidence of the appropriate expertise, experience, and ability on the part of the mentor(s) to guide the applicant during participation in the clinical trial? environment & institutional commitment to the candidate is there clear commitment of the sponsoring institution to ensure that the required minimum of the candidate's effort will be devoted directly to the research described in the application, with the remaining percent effort being devoted to an appropriate balance of research, teaching, administrative, and clinical responsibilities? is the institutional commitment to the career development of the candidate appropriately strong? are the research facilities, resources and training opportunities, including faculty capable of productive collaboration with the candidate adequate and appropriate? is the environment for the candidate's scientific and professional development of high quality? is there assurance that the institution intends the candidate to be an integral part of its research program as an independent investigator? additional review criteria as applicable for the project proposed, reviewers will evaluate the following additional items while determining scientific and technical merit, and in providing an overall impact score, but will not give separate scores for these items. protections for human subjects for research that involves human subjects but does not involve one of the categories of research that are exempt under 45 cfr part 46, the committee will evaluate the justification for involvement of human subjects and the proposed protections from research risk relating to their participation according to the following five review criteria: (1) risk to subjects, (2) adequacy of protection against risks, (3) potential benefits to the subjects and others, (4) importance of the knowledge to be gained, and (5) data and safety monitoring for clinical trials. for research that involves human subjects and meets the criteria for one or more of the categories of research that are exempt under 45 cfr part 46, the committee will evaluate: (1) the justification for the exemption, (2) human subjects involvement and characteristics, and (3) sources of materials. for additional information on review of the human subjects section, please refer to the guidelines for the review of human subjects. inclusion of women, minorities, and individuals across the lifespan when the proposed project involves human subjects and/or nih-defined clinical research, the committee will evaluate the proposed plans for the inclusion (or exclusion) of individuals on the basis of sex/gender, race, and ethnicity, as well as the inclusion (or exclusion) of individuals across the lifespan (including children and older adults) to determine if it is justified in terms of the scientific goals and research strategy proposed. for additional information on review of the inclusion section, please refer to the guidelines for the review of inclusion in clinical research. vertebrate animals the committee will evaluate the involvement of live vertebrate animals as part of the scientific assessment according to the following criteria: (1) description of proposed procedures involving animals, including species, strains, ages, sex, and total number to be used; (2) justifications for the use of animals versus alternative models and for the appropriateness of the species proposed; (3) interventions to minimize discomfort, distress, pain and injury; and (4) justification for euthanasia method if not consistent with the avma guidelines for the euthanasia of animals. reviewers will assess the use of chimpanzees as they would any other application proposing the use of vertebrate animals. for additional information on review of the vertebrate animals section, please refer to the worksheet for review of the vertebrate animal section. biohazards reviewers will assess whether materials or procedures proposed are potentially hazardous to research personnel and/or the environment, and if needed, determine whether adequate protection is proposed. resubmissions for resubmissions, the committee will evaluate the application as now presented, taking into consideration the responses to comments from the previous scientific review group and changes made to the project. renewals not applicable revisions not applicable additional review considerations note: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023, the data sharing plan and genomic data sharing plan (gds) as part of the resource sharing plan will not be evaluated at time of review. as applicable for the project proposed, reviewers will consider each of the following items, but will not give scores for these items, and should not consider them in providing an overall impact score. training in the responsible conduct of research all applications for support under this foa must include a plan to fulfill nih requirements for instruction in the responsible conduct of research (rcr). taking into account the level of experience of the candidate, including any prior instruction or participation in rcr as appropriate for the candidate’s career stage, the reviewers will evaluate the adequacy of the proposed rcr training in relation to the following five required components: 1) format - the required format of instruction, i.e., face-to-face lectures, coursework, and/or real-time discussion groups (a plan with only on-line instruction is not acceptable); 2) subject matter - the breadth of subject matter, e.g., conflict of interest, authorship, data management, human subjects and animal use, laboratory safety, research misconduct, research ethics; 3) faculty participation - the role of the mentor(s) and other faculty involvement in the fellow’s instruction; 4) duration of instruction - the number of contact hours of instruction (at least eight contact hours are required); and 5) frequency of instruction –instruction must occur during each career stage and at least once every four years. plans and past record will be rated as acceptable or unacceptable, and the summary statement will provide the consensus of the review committee. see also: not-od-10-019. select agent research reviewers will assess the information provided in this section of the application, including (1) the select agent(s) to be used in the proposed research, (2) the registration status of all entities where select agent(s) will be used, (3) the procedures that will be used to monitor possession use and transfer of select agent(s), and (4) plans for appropriate biosafety, biocontainment, and security of the select agent(s). resource sharing plans reviewers will comment on whether the following resource sharing plans, or the rationale for not sharing the following types of resources, are reasonable: (1) data sharing plan; (2) sharing model organisms; and (3) genomic data sharing plan (gds). authentication of key biological and/or chemical resources for projects involving key biological and/or chemical resources, reviewers will comment on the brief plans proposed for identifying and ensuring the validity of those resources. budget and period of support reviewers will consider whether the budget and the requested period of support are fully justified and reasonable in relation to the proposed research. 2. review and selection process applications will be evaluated for scientific and technical merit by (an) appropriate scientific review group(s),, in accordance with nih peer review policy and procedures, using the stated review criteria. assignment to a scientific review group will be shown in the era commons. as part of the scientific peer review, all applications: may undergo a selection process in which only those applications deemed to have the highest scientific and technical merit (generally the top half of applications under review) will be discussed and assigned an overall impact score. will receive a written critique. applications will be assigned on the basis of established phs referral guidelines to the appropriate nih institute or center. applications will compete for available funds with all other recommended applications . following initial peer review, recommended applications will receive a second level of review by the national cancer advisory board. the following will be considered in making funding decisions: scientific and technical merit of the proposed project as determined by scientific peer review. availability of funds. relevance of the proposed project to program priorities. 3. anticipated announcement and award dates after the peer review of the application is completed, the pd/pi will be able to access his or her summary statement (written critique) via the era commons. refer to part 1 for dates for peer review, advisory council review, and earliest start date information regarding the disposition of applications is available in the nih grants policy statement. section vi. award administration information 1. award notices if the application is under consideration for funding, nih will request "just-in-time" information from the applicant as described in the nih grants policy statement. a formal notification in the form of a notice of award (noa) will be provided to the applicant organization for successful applications. the noa signed by the grants management officer is the authorizing document and will be sent via email to the grantee’s business official. awardees must comply with any funding restrictions described in section iv.5. funding restrictions. selection of an application for award is not an authorization to begin performance. any costs incurred before receipt of the noa are at the recipient's risk. these costs may be reimbursed only to the extent considered allowable pre-award costs. any application awarded in response to this foa will be subject to terms and conditions found on the award conditions and information for nih grants website. this includes any recent legislation and policy applicable to awards that is highlighted on this website. institutional review board or independent ethics committee approval: recipient institutions must ensure that all protocols are reviewed by their irb or iec. to help ensure the safety of participants enrolled in nih-funded studies, the awardee must provide nih copies of documents related to all major changes in the status of ongoing protocols. 2. administrative and national policy requirements all nih grant and cooperative agreement awards include the nih grants policy statement as part of the noa. for these terms of award, see the nih grants policy statement part ii: terms and conditions of nih grant awards, subpart a: general and part ii: terms and conditions of nih grant awards, subpart b: terms and conditions for specific types of grants, recipients, and activities. more information is provided at award conditions and information for nih grants. more specifically, for k awards, visit the research career development (“k”) awardees section of the nih grants policy statement. recipients of federal financial assistance (ffa) from hhs must administer their programs in compliance with federal civil rights laws that prohibit discrimination on the basis of race, color, national origin, disability, age and, in some circumstances, religion, conscience, and sex. this includes ensuring programs are accessible to persons with limited english proficiency. the hhs office for civil rights provides guidance on complying with civil rights laws enforced by hhs. please see https://www.hhs.gov/civil-rights/for-providers/provider-obligations/index.html and http://www.hhs.gov/ocr/civilrights/understanding/section1557/index.html. hhs recognizes that research projects are often limited in scope for many reasons that are nondiscriminatory, such as the principal investigator’s scientific interest, funding limitations, recruitment requirements, and other considerations. thus, criteria in research protocols that target or exclude certain populations are warranted where nondiscriminatory justifications establish that such criteria are appropriate with respect to the health or safety of the subjects, the scientific study design, or the purpose of the research. for additional guidance regarding how the provisions apply to nih grant programs, please contact the scientific/research contact that is identified in section vii under agency contacts of this foa. recipients of ffa must ensure that their programs are accessible to persons with limited english proficiency. hhs provides guidance to recipients of ffa on meeting their legal obligation to take reasonable steps to provide meaningful access to their programs by persons with limited english proficiency. please see https://www.hhs.gov/civil-rights/for-individuals/special-topics/limited-english-proficiency/fact-sheet-guidance/index.html and https://www.lep.gov. for further guidance on providing culturally and linguistically appropriate services, recipients should review the national standards for culturally and linguistically appropriate services in health and health care at https://minorityhealth.hhs.gov/omh/browse.aspx?lvl=2&lvlid=53. recipients of ffa also have specific legal obligations for serving qualified individuals with disabilities. please see http://www.hhs.gov/ocr/civilrights/understanding/disability/index.html. hhs funded health and education programs must be administered in an environment free of sexual harassment. please see https://www.hhs.gov/civil-rights/for-individuals/sex-discrimination/index.html; https://www2.ed.gov/about/offices/list/ocr/docs/shguide.html; and https://www.eeoc.gov/eeoc/publications/upload/fs-sex.pdf. for information about nih's commitment to supporting a safe and respectful work environment, who to contact with questions or concerns, and what nih's expectations are for institutions and the individuals supported on nih-funded awards, please see https://grants.nih.gov/grants/policy/harassment.htm. recipients of ffa must also administer their programs in compliance with applicable federal religious nondiscrimination laws and applicable federal conscience protection and associated anti-discrimination laws. collectively, these laws prohibit exclusion, adverse treatment, coercion, or other discrimination against persons or entities on the basis of their consciences, religious beliefs, or moral convictions. please see https://www.hhs.gov/conscience/conscience-protections/index.html and https://www.hhs.gov/conscience/religious-freedom/index.html. please contact the hhs office for civil rights for more information about obligations and prohibitions under federal civil rights laws at https://www.hhs.gov/ocr/about-us/contact-us/index.html or call 1-800-368-1019 or tdd 1-800-537-7697. in accordance with the statutory provisions contained in section 872 of the duncan hunter national defense authorization act of fiscal year 2009 (public law 110-417), nih awards will be subject to the federal awardee performance and integrity information system (fapiis) requirements. fapiis requires federal award making officials to review and consider information about an applicant in the designated integrity and performance system (currently fapiis) prior to making an award. an applicant, at its option, may review information in the designated integrity and performance systems accessible through fapiis and comment on any information about itself that a federal agency previously entered and is currently in fapiis. the federal awarding agency will consider any comments by the applicant, in addition to other information in fapiis, in making a judgement about the applicant’s integrity, business ethics, and record of performance under federal awards when completing the review of risk posed by applicants as described in 45 cfr part 75.205 “federal awarding agency review of risk posed by applicants.” this provision will apply to all nih grants and cooperative agreements except fellowships. data management and sharing note: the nih policy for data management and sharing is effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023. consistent with the nih policy for data management and sharing, when data management and sharing is applicable to the award, recipients will be required to adhere to the data management and sharing requirements as outlined in the nih grants policy statement. upon the approval of a data management and sharing plan, it is required for recipients to implement the plan as described. 3. reporting when multiple years are involved, awardees will be required to submit the research performance progress report (rppr) annually and financial statements as required in the nih grants policy statement. the supplemental instructions for individual career development (k) rpprs must be followed. the mentor’s report must include an annual evaluation statement of the candidate’s progress. a final rppr, invention statement, and the expenditure data portion of the federal financial report are required for closeout of an award, as described in the nih grants policy statement. the federal funding accountability and transparency act of 2006 (transparency act), includes a requirement for awardees of federal grants to report information about first-tier subawards and executive compensation under federal assistance awards issued in fy2011 or later. all awardees of applicable nih grants and cooperative agreements are required to report to the federal subaward reporting system (fsrs) available at www.fsrs.gov on all subawards over $25,000. see the nih grants policy statement for additional information on this reporting requirement. in accordance with the regulatory requirements provided at 45 cfr 75.113 and appendix xii to 45 cfr part 75, recipients that have currently active federal grants, cooperative agreements, and procurement contracts from all federal awarding agencies with a cumulative total value greater than $10,000,000 for any period of time during the period of performance of a federal award, must report and maintain the currency of information reported in the system for award management (sam) about civil, criminal, and administrative proceedings in connection with the award or performance of a federal award that reached final disposition within the most recent five-year period. the recipient must also make semiannual disclosures regarding such proceedings. proceedings information will be made publicly available in the designated integrity and performance system (currently fapiis). this is a statutory requirement under section 872 of public law 110-417, as amended (41 u.s.c. 2313). as required by section 3010 of public law 111-212, all information posted in the designated integrity and performance system on or after april 15, 2011, except past performance reviews required for federal procurement contracts, will be publicly available. full reporting requirements and procedures are found in appendix xii to 45 cfr part 75 – award term and conditions for recipient integrity and performance matters. 4. evaluation in carrying out its stewardship of human resource-related programs, the nih may request information essential to an assessment of the effectiveness of this program from databases and from participants themselves. participants may be contacted after the completion of this award for periodic updates on various aspects of their employment history, publications, support from research grants or contracts, honors and awards, professional activities, and other information helpful in evaluating the impact of the program. within ten years of making awards under this program, nih will assess the program’s overall outcomes, gauge its effectiveness in enhancing diversity, and consider whether there is a continuing need for the program. upon the completion of this evaluation, nih will determine whether to (a) continue the program as currently configured, (b) continue the program with modifications, or (c) discontinue the program. the overall evaluation of the program will be based on metrics that will include, but are not limited to, the following: subsequent participation in research or employment in a stem field authorship of scientific publications in a stem field subsequent independent research grant support from nih or another source section vii. agency contacts we encourage inquiries concerning this funding opportunity and welcome the opportunity to answer questions from potential applicants. application submission contacts era service desk (questions regarding assist, era commons, application errors and warnings, documenting system problems that threaten submission by the due date, and post submission issues) finding help online: http://grants.nih.gov/support/ (preferred method of contact) telephone: 301-402-7469 or 866-504-9552 (toll free) grantsinfo (questions regarding application instructions, application processes, and nih grant resources) email: grantsinfo@nih.gov (preferred method of contact) telephone: 301-637-3015 grants.gov customer support (questions regarding grants.gov registration and workspace) contact center telephone: 800-518-4726 email: support@grants.gov scientific/research contact(s) laritza m. rodriguez, m.d., ph.d.. national cancer institute (nci) telephone:(240) 276-5969 email: laritza.rodriguez@nih.gov peer review contact(s) referral officer national cancer institute (nci) telephone: 240-276- 6390 email: ncirefof@dea.nci.nih.gov.. financial/grants management contact(s) sean hine national cancer institute (nci) telephone: 240-276-6291 email: hines@mail.nih.gov section viii. other information recently issued trans-nih policy notices may affect your application submission. a full list of policy notices published by nih is provided in the nih guide for grants and contracts. all awards are subject to the terms and conditions, cost principles, and other considerations described in the nih grants policy statement. please note that the nih loan repayment programs (lrps) are a set of programs to attract and retain promising early-stage investigators in research careers by helping them to repay their student loans. recipients of career development awards are encouraged to consider applying for an extramural lrp award. authority and regulations awards are made under the authorization of sections 301 and 405 of the public health service act as amended (42 usc 241 and 284) and under federal regulations 42 cfr part 52 and 45 cfr part 75.this foa does not require cost sharing as defined in the nih grants policy statement.applicant organizations may submit more than one application, provided that each application is scientifically distinct, and each is from a different candidate.the nih will not accept duplicate or highly overlapping applications under review at the same time. an individual may not have two or more competing nih career development applications pending review concurrently. in addition, nih will not accept:candidates may submit research project grant (rpg) applications concurrently with the k application. however, any concurrent rpg application may not have substantial scientific and/or budgetary overlap with the career award application. k award recipients are encouraged to obtain funding from nih or other federal sources either as a pd/pi on a competing research grant award or cooperative agreement, or as project leader on a competing multi-project award as described in not-od-08-065.at the time of award, the candidate must have a “full-time” appointment at the applicant institution. candidates are required to commit a minimum of nine person months of effort (i.e., 75% of full-time professional effort) to their program of career development. candidates may engage in other duties as part of the professional effort not covered by this award, as long as such duties do not interfere with or detract from the proposed career development program.candidates who have va appointments may not consider part of the va effort toward satisfying the full time requirement at the applicant institution. candidates with va appointments should contact the staff person in the relevant institute or center prior to preparing an application to discuss their eligibility.after the receipt of the award, adjustments to the required level of effort may be made in certain circumstances. see not-od-09-036 for more details.before submitting the application, the candidate must identify a mentor who will supervise the proposed career development and research experience. the mentor should be an active investigator in the area of the proposed research and be committed both to the career development of the candidate and to the direct supervision of the candidate's research. the mentor must document the availability of sufficient research support and facilities for high-quality research. candidates are encouraged to identify more than one mentor, i.e., a mentoring team (or advisory committee), if this is deemed advantageous for providing expert advice in all aspects of the research career development program. in such cases, one individual must be identified as the primary mentor who will coordinate the candidate's research. the candidate must work with the mentor(s) in preparing the application. the mentor, or a member of the mentoring team, should have a successful track record of mentoring individuals at the candidate's career stage. where feasible, women, individuals from underrepresented racial and ethnic groups, and individuals with disabilities should be involved as mentors to serve as role models.the mentor(s) or mentoring team must demonstrate appropriate expertise, experience, and ability to guide the applicant in the organization, management and implementation of the proposed research and clinical trial.institutional environmentthe applicant institution must have a strong, well-established record of research and career development activities and faculty qualified to serve as mentors in biomedical, behavioral, or clinical research.the application forms package specific to this opportunity must be accessed through assist, grants.gov workspace or an institutional system-to-system solution. links to apply using assist or grants.gov workspace are available in part 1 of this foa. see your administrative office for instructions if you plan to use an institutional system-to-system solution.it is critical that applicants follow the career development (k) instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, except where instructed in this funding opportunity announcement to do otherwise. conformance to the requirements in the application guide is required and strictly enforced. applications that are out of compliance with these instructions may be delayed or not accepted for review.all page limitations described in the sf424 (r&r) application guide and the table of page limits must be followed.note: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023, the data management and sharing (dms) plan will be attached in the other plan(s) attachment in forms-h and subsequent application forms packages. for due dates on or before january 24, 2023, the data sharing plan and genomic data sharing plan gds) will continue to be attached in the resource sharing plan attachment in forms-g application forms packages.the following section supplements the instructions found in the sf 424 (r&r) application guide and should be used for preparing an application to this foa.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed, with the following additional instructions:all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.important reminder: the personal profile associated with the era commons username entered in the credential field for the pd/pi (candidate) must include an orcid id. for more information on linking an orcid id to an era commons personal profile see the orcid topic in our era commons online help.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.other plan(s):note: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023, the data management and sharing plan will be attached in the other plan(s) attachment in forms-h and subsequent application forms packages. for due dates on or before january 24, 2023, the data sharing plan and genomic data sharing plan gds) will continue to be attached in the resource sharing plan attachment in forms-g application forms packages.all applicants planning research (funded or conducted in whole or in part by nih) that results in the generation of scientific data are required to comply with the instructions for the data management and sharing plan. all applications, regardless of the amount of direct costs requested for any one year, must address a data management and sharing plan.the phs 398 career development award supplemental form is comprised of the following sections:all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed, with the following additional instructions:all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed, with the following additional instructions:candidate information and goals for career developmentcandidate’s backgroundcareer goals and objectivescandidate’s plan for career development during award periodresearch plan sectionall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed, with the following additional instructions:research strategytraining in the responsible conduct of researchmentor, co-mentor, consultant, collaborators sectionall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed, with the following additional instructions:letters of support from collaborators, contributors and consultantsenvironmental and institutional commitment to the candidateall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed, with the following additional instructions:description of institutional environmentinstitutional commitment to the candidate’s research career developmentappendixlimited items are allowed in the appendix. follow all instructions for the appendix as described in the sf424 (r&r) application guide; any instructions provided here are in addition to the sf424 (r&r) application guide instructions.when involving human subjects research, clinical research, and/or nih-defined clinical trials (and when applicable, clinical trials research experience) follow all instructions for the phs human subjects and clinical trials information form in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, with the following additional instructions:if you answered “yes” to the question “are human subjects involved?” on the r&r other project information form, you must include at least one human subjects study record using the study record: phs human subjects and clinical trials information form or a delayed onset study record. if gaining research experience in a clinical trial led by a mentor/co-mentor, provide the mentor's clinicaltrials.gov identifier (i.e., nct number).study record: phs human subjects and clinical trials informationall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed with the following additional instructions:do not complete section 4 – protocol synopsis information or section 5 - other clinical trial-related attachments.delayed onset studyall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.candidates must carefully follow the sf424 (r&r) application guide, including the time period for when reference letters will be accepted. applications lacking the appropriate required reference letters will not be reviewed. this is a separate process from submitting an application electronically. reference letters are submitted directly through the era commons submit referee information link and not through grants.gov.see part 1. section iii.1 for information regarding the requirement for obtaining a unique entity identifier and for completing and maintaining active registrations in system for award management (sam), nato commercial and government entity (ncage) code (if applicable), era commons, and grants.gov.part i. overview information contains information about key dates and times. applicants are encouraged to submit applications before the due date to ensure they have time to make any application corrections that might be necessary for successful submission. when a submission date falls on a weekend or federal holiday, the application deadline is automatically extended to the next business day.organizations must submit applications to grants.gov (the online portal to find and apply for grants across all federal agencies) using assist or other electronic submission systems. applicants must then complete the submission process by tracking the status of the application in the era commons, nih’s electronic system for grants administration. nih and grants.gov systems check the application against many of the application instructions upon submission. errors must be corrected and a changed/corrected application must be submitted to grants.gov on or before the application due date. and time. if a changed/corrected application is submitted after the deadline, the application will be considered late. applications that miss the due date and time are subjected to the nih policy on late application submission.applicants are responsible for viewing their application before the due date in the era commons to ensure accurate and successful submission.information on the submission process and a definition of on-time submission are provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.this initiative is not subject to intergovernmental review.all nih awards are subject to the terms and conditions, cost principles, and other considerations described in the nih grants policy statement.pre-award costs are allowable only as described in the nih grants policy statement.applications must be submitted electronically following the instructions described in the sf424 (r&r) application guide. paper applications will not be accepted.applicants must complete all required registrations before the application due date. section iii. eligibility information contains information about registration.for assistance with your electronic application or for more information on the electronic submission process, visit how to apply – application guide. if you encounter a system issue beyond your control that threatens your ability to complete the submission process on-time, you must follow the dealing with system issues guidance. for assistance with application submission contact the application submission contacts in section vii.important reminders:all pd(s)/pi(s) must include their era commons id in the credential field of the senior/key person profile component of the sf424(r&r) application package. failure to register in the commons and to include a valid pd/pi commons id in the credential field will prevent the successful submission of an electronic application to nih.the applicant organization must ensure that the duns number it provides on the application is the same number used in the organization’s profile in the era commons and for the system for award management (sam). additional information may be found in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.see more tips for avoiding common errors.upon receipt, applications will be evaluated for completeness and compliance with application instructions by the center for scientific review, nih. applications that are incomplete or non-compliant will not be reviewed.applicants are required to follow the instructions for post-submission materials, as described in the policy. any instructions provided here are in addition to the instructions in the policy.note: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023, the data sharing plan and genomic data sharing plan (gds) as part of the resource sharing plan will not be evaluated at time of review.only the review criteria described below will be considered in the review process. applications submitted to the nih in support of the nih mission are evaluated for scientific and technical merit through the nih peer review system.reviewers should provide their assessment of the likelihood that the proposed career development and research plan will enhance the candidate’s potential for a productive, independent scientific research career in a health-related field, taking into consideration the criteria below in determining the overall impact score.reviewers will consider each of the review criteria below in the determination of scientific merit, and give a separate score for each. an application does not need to be strong in all categories to be judged likely to have major scientific impact.candidatecareer development plan/career goals and objectivesresearch planmentor(s), co-mentor(s), consultant(s), collaborator(s)environment & institutional commitment to the candidateas applicable for the project proposed, reviewers will evaluate the following additional items while determining scientific and technical merit, and in providing an overall impact score, but will not give separate scores for these items.for research that involves human subjects but does not involve one of the categories of research that are exempt under 45 cfr part 46, the committee will evaluate the justification for involvement of human subjects and the proposed protections from research risk relating to their participation according to the following five review criteria: (1) risk to subjects, (2) adequacy of protection against risks, (3) potential benefits to the subjects and others, (4) importance of the knowledge to be gained, and (5) data and safety monitoring for clinical trials.for research that involves human subjects and meets the criteria for one or more of the categories of research that are exempt under 45 cfr part 46, the committee will evaluate: (1) the justification for the exemption, (2) human subjects involvement and characteristics, and (3) sources of materials. for additional information on review of the human subjects section, please refer to the guidelines for the review of human subjects.when the proposed project involves human subjects and/or nih-defined clinical research, the committee will evaluate the proposed plans for the inclusion (or exclusion) of individuals on the basis of sex/gender, race, and ethnicity, as well as the inclusion (or exclusion) of individuals across the lifespan (including children and older adults) to determine if it is justified in terms of the scientific goals and research strategy proposed. for additional information on review of the inclusion section, please refer to the guidelines for the review of inclusion in clinical research.the committee will evaluate the involvement of live vertebrate animals as part of the scientific assessment according to the following criteria: (1) description of proposed procedures involving animals, including species, strains, ages, sex, and total number to be used; (2) justifications for the use of animals versus alternative models and for the appropriateness of the species proposed; (3) interventions to minimize discomfort, distress, pain and injury; and (4) justification for euthanasia method if not consistent with the avma guidelines for the euthanasia of animals. reviewers will assess the use of chimpanzees as they would any other application proposing the use of vertebrate animals. for additional information on review of the vertebrate animals section, please refer to the worksheet for review of the vertebrate animal section.reviewers will assess whether materials or procedures proposed are potentially hazardous to research personnel and/or the environment, and if needed, determine whether adequate protection is proposed.for resubmissions, the committee will evaluate the application as now presented, taking into consideration the responses to comments from the previous scientific review group and changes made to the project.not applicablenot applicablenote: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023, the data sharing plan and genomic data sharing plan (gds) as part of the resource sharing plan will not be evaluated at time of review.as applicable for the project proposed, reviewers will consider each of the following items, but will not give scores for these items, and should not consider them in providing an overall impact score.all applications for support under this foa must include a plan to fulfill nih requirements for instruction in the responsible conduct of research (rcr). taking into account the level of experience of the candidate, including any prior instruction or participation in rcr as appropriate for the candidate’s career stage, the reviewers will evaluate the adequacy of the proposed rcr training in relation to the following five required components: 1) format - the required format of instruction, i.e., face-to-face lectures, coursework, and/or real-time discussion groups (a plan with only on-line instruction is not acceptable); 2) subject matter - the breadth of subject matter, e.g., conflict of interest, authorship, data management, human subjects and animal use, laboratory safety, research misconduct, research ethics; 3) faculty participation - the role of the mentor(s) and other faculty involvement in the fellow’s instruction; 4) duration of instruction - the number of contact hours of instruction (at least eight contact hours are required); and 5) frequency of instruction –instruction must occur during each career stage and at least once every four years. plans and past record will be rated as acceptable or unacceptable, and the summary statement will provide the consensus of the review committee. see also: not-od-10-019.reviewers will assess the information provided in this section of the application, including (1) the select agent(s) to be used in the proposed research, (2) the registration status of all entities where select agent(s) will be used, (3) the procedures that will be used to monitor possession use and transfer of select agent(s), and (4) plans for appropriate biosafety, biocontainment, and security of the select agent(s).reviewers will comment on whether the following resource sharing plans, or the rationale for not sharing the following types of resources, are reasonable: (1) data sharing plan; (2) sharing model organisms; and (3) genomic data sharing plan (gds).authentication of key biological and/or chemical resourcesfor projects involving key biological and/or chemical resources, reviewers will comment on the brief plans proposed for identifying and ensuring the validity of those resources.reviewers will consider whether the budget and the requested period of support are fully justified and reasonable in relation to the proposed research.applications will be evaluated for scientific and technical merit by (an) appropriate scientific review group(s),, in accordance with nih peer review policy and procedures, using the stated review criteria. assignment to a scientific review group will be shown in the era commons.as part of the scientific peer review, all applications:applications will be assigned on the basis of established phs referral guidelines to the appropriate nih institute or center. applications will compete for available funds with all other recommended applications . following initial peer review, recommended applications will receive a second level of review by the national cancer advisory board. the following will be considered in making funding decisions:after the peer review of the application is completed, the pd/pi will be able to access his or her summary statement (written critique) via the era commons. refer to part 1 for dates for peer review, advisory council review, and earliest start dateinformation regarding the disposition of applications is available in the nih grants policy statement.if the application is under consideration for funding, nih will request "just-in-time" information from the applicant as described in the nih grants policy statement.a formal notification in the form of a notice of award (noa) will be provided to the applicant organization for successful applications. the noa signed by the grants management officer is the authorizing document and will be sent via email to the grantee’s business official.awardees must comply with any funding restrictions described in section iv.5. funding restrictions. selection of an application for award is not an authorization to begin performance. any costs incurred before receipt of the noa are at the recipient's risk. these costs may be reimbursed only to the extent considered allowable pre-award costs.any application awarded in response to this foa will be subject to terms and conditions found on the award conditions and information for nih grants website. this includes any recent legislation and policy applicable to awards that is highlighted on this website.institutional review board or independent ethics committee approval: recipient institutions must ensure that all protocols are reviewed by their irb or iec. to help ensure the safety of participants enrolled in nih-funded studies, the awardee must provide nih copies of documents related to all major changes in the status of ongoing protocols.all nih grant and cooperative agreement awards include the nih grants policy statement as part of the noa. for these terms of award, see the nih grants policy statement part ii: terms and conditions of nih grant awards, subpart a: general and part ii: terms and conditions of nih grant awards, subpart b: terms and conditions for specific types of grants, recipients, and activities. more information is provided at award conditions and information for nih grants. more specifically, for k awards, visit the research career development (“k”) awardees section of the nih grants policy statement.recipients of federal financial assistance (ffa) from hhs must administer their programs in compliance with federal civil rights laws that prohibit discrimination on the basis of race, color, national origin, disability, age and, in some circumstances, religion, conscience, and sex. this includes ensuring programs are accessible to persons with limited english proficiency. the hhs office for civil rights provides guidance on complying with civil rights laws enforced by hhs. please see https://www.hhs.gov/civil-rights/for-providers/provider-obligations/index.html and http://www.hhs.gov/ocr/civilrights/understanding/section1557/index.html.hhs recognizes that research projects are often limited in scope for many reasons that are nondiscriminatory, such as the principal investigator’s scientific interest, funding limitations, recruitment requirements, and other considerations. thus, criteria in research protocols that target or exclude certain populations are warranted where nondiscriminatory justifications establish that such criteria are appropriate with respect to the health or safety of the subjects, the scientific study design, or the purpose of the research. for additional guidance regarding how the provisions apply to nih grant programs, please contact the scientific/research contact that is identified in section vii under agency contacts of this foa.please contact the hhs office for civil rights for more information about obligations and prohibitions under federal civil rights laws at https://www.hhs.gov/ocr/about-us/contact-us/index.html or call 1-800-368-1019 or tdd 1-800-537-7697.in accordance with the statutory provisions contained in section 872 of the duncan hunter national defense authorization act of fiscal year 2009 (public law 110-417), nih awards will be subject to the federal awardee performance and integrity information system (fapiis) requirements. fapiis requires federal award making officials to review and consider information about an applicant in the designated integrity and performance system (currently fapiis) prior to making an award. an applicant, at its option, may review information in the designated integrity and performance systems accessible through fapiis and comment on any information about itself that a federal agency previously entered and is currently in fapiis. the federal awarding agency will consider any comments by the applicant, in addition to other information in fapiis, in making a judgement about the applicant’s integrity, business ethics, and record of performance under federal awards when completing the review of risk posed by applicants as described in 45 cfr part 75.205 “federal awarding agency review of risk posed by applicants.” this provision will apply to all nih grants and cooperative agreements except fellowships.data management and sharingnote: the nih policy for data management and sharing is effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023.consistent with the nih policy for data management and sharing, when data management and sharing is applicable to the award, recipients will be required to adhere to the data management and sharing requirements as outlined in the nih grants policy statement. upon the approval of a data management and sharing plan, it is required for recipients to implement the plan as described.when multiple years are involved, awardees will be required to submit the research performance progress report (rppr) annually and financial statements as required in the nih grants policy statement. the supplemental instructions for individual career development (k) rpprs must be followed. the mentor’s report must include an annual evaluation statement of the candidate’s progress.a final rppr, invention statement, and the expenditure data portion of the federal financial report are required for closeout of an award, as described in the nih grants policy statement.the federal funding accountability and transparency act of 2006 (transparency act), includes a requirement for awardees of federal grants to report information about first-tier subawards and executive compensation under federal assistance awards issued in fy2011 or later. all awardees of applicable nih grants and cooperative agreements are required to report to the federal subaward reporting system (fsrs) available at www.fsrs.gov on all subawards over $25,000. see the nih grants policy statement for additional information on this reporting requirement.in accordance with the regulatory requirements provided at 45 cfr 75.113 and appendix xii to 45 cfr part 75, recipients that have currently active federal grants, cooperative agreements, and procurement contracts from all federal awarding agencies with a cumulative total value greater than $10,000,000 for any period of time during the period of performance of a federal award, must report and maintain the currency of information reported in the system for award management (sam) about civil, criminal, and administrative proceedings in connection with the award or performance of a federal award that reached final disposition within the most recent five-year period. the recipient must also make semiannual disclosures regarding such proceedings. proceedings information will be made publicly available in the designated integrity and performance system (currently fapiis). this is a statutory requirement under section 872 of public law 110-417, as amended (41 u.s.c. 2313). as required by section 3010 of public law 111-212, all information posted in the designated integrity and performance system on or after april 15, 2011, except past performance reviews required for federal procurement contracts, will be publicly available. full reporting requirements and procedures are found in appendix xii to 45 cfr part 75 – award term and conditions for recipient integrity and performance matters.in carrying out its stewardship of human resource-related programs, the nih may request information essential to an assessment of the effectiveness of this program from databases and from participants themselves. participants may be contacted after the completion of this award for periodic updates on various aspects of their employment history, publications, support from research grants or contracts, honors and awards, professional activities, and other information helpful in evaluating the impact of the program.within ten years of making awards under this program, nih will assess the program’s overall outcomes, gauge its effectiveness in enhancing diversity, and consider whether there is a continuing need for the program. upon the completion of this evaluation, nih will determine whether to (a) continue the program as currently configured, (b) continue the program with modifications, or (c) discontinue the program.the overall evaluation of the program will be based on metrics that will include, but are not limited to, the following:subsequent participation in research or employment in a stem fieldauthorship of scientific publications in a stem fieldsubsequent independent research grant support from nih or another sourcewe encourage inquiries concerning this funding opportunity and welcome the opportunity to answer questions from potential applicants.era service desk (questions regarding assist, era commons, application errors and warnings, documenting system problems that threaten submission by the due date, and post submission issues) finding help online: http://grants.nih.gov/support/ (preferred method of contact)telephone: 301-402-7469 or 866-504-9552 (toll free)grantsinfo (questions regarding application instructions, application processes, and nih grant resources) email: grantsinfo@nih.gov (preferred method of contact)telephone: 301-637-3015grants.gov customer support (questions regarding grants.gov registration and workspace) contact center telephone: 800-518-4726 email: support@grants.govlaritza m. rodriguez, m.d., ph.d.. national cancer institute (nci) telephone:(240) 276-5969 email: laritza.rodriguez@nih.govreferral officer national cancer institute (nci) telephone: 240-276- 6390 email: ncirefof@dea.nci.nih.gov..sean hine national cancer institute (nci) telephone: 240-276-6291 email: hines@mail.nih.govrecently issued trans-nih policy notices may affect your application submission. a full list of policy notices published by nih is provided in the nih guide for grants and contracts. all awards are subject to the terms and conditions, cost principles, and other considerations described in the nih grants policy statement.please note that the nih loan repayment programs (lrps) are a set of programs to attract and retain promising early-stage investigators in research careers by helping them to repay their student loans. recipients of career development awards are encouraged to consider applying for an extramural lrp award.awards are made under the authorization of sections 301 and 405 of the public health service act as amended (42 usc 241 and 284) and under federal regulations 42 cfr part 52 and 45 cfr part 75.weekly toc for this announcement nih funding opportunities and noticesnote: for help accessing pdf, rtf, ms word, excel, powerpoint, audio or video files, see help downloading files.