NIA Program Project Applications (P01 Clinical Trial Optional)
https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/pa-files/PAR-22-130.html
national institutes of health (nih)national institute on aging (nia)p01 research program projectssee notices of special interest associated with this funding opportunitynot-od-23-012 reminder: forms-h grant application forms and instructions must be used for due dates on or after january 25, 2023 - new grant application instructions now availablenot-od-22-190 - adjustments to nih and ahrq grant application due dates between september 22 and september 30, 2022see section iii. 3. additional information on eligibility.the national institute on aging (nia) invites the submission of investigator-initiated research program project (p01) applications addressing scientific areas relevant to nia's mission. each application submitted to this funding opportunity announcement (foa) must include at least three related research projects that share a common central theme, focus, and overall objective, in addition to an administrative core to lead the project. revision applications should include expansion of an existing, or proposal of a new, project or projects within the context and theme of the parent p01 award. revision applications may not request support beyond the end date of the parent p01 award, but may propose to expand existing cores, or propose new cores, to support the expansion or creation of new projects.30 days before the application due dateall applications are due by 5:00 pm local time of applicant organization.applicants are encouraged to apply early to allow adequate time to make any corrections to errors found in the application during the submission process by the due date.not applicableit is critical that applicants follow the multi-project (m) instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, except where instructed to do otherwise (in this foa or in a notice from the nih guide for grants and contracts). conformance to all requirements (both in the application guide and the foa) is required and strictly enforced. applicants must read and follow all application instructions in the application guide as well as any program-specific instructions noted in section iv. when the program-specific instructions deviate from those in the application guide, follow the program-specific instructions. applications that do not comply with these instructions may be delayed or not accepted for review.there are several options available to submit your application through grants.gov to nih and department of health and human services partners. you must use one of these submission options to access the application forms for this opportunity.backgroundthe national institute on aging (nia) invites applications for research program project grant (p01) awards in areas relevant to its mission. these areas include: genetic, biological, neuroscientific, clinical, behavioral, social, and economic research related to the aging process, aging-related diseases, and conditions associated with aging, as well as other special problems and needs of older americans. nia has a major emphasis on, and substantial resources for, research on alzheimer's disease and alzheimer's disease-related dementias (ad/adrd).p01 awards represent synergistic research programs that are designed to achieve results that cannot be attained by investigators working independently. the awards consist of at least three projects and an administrative core, all of which are active throughout all years of the p01.purposethis funding opportunity announcement (foa) invites p01 applications that address the mission of nia, as outlined in the background section above. investigators are encouraged to visit nia's website for additional information about its mission and high-priority research areas. additionally, investigators are encouraged to visit nia's website for additional information specific to the p01 award.the purpose of the p01 award is to support integrated, multi-project research programs that have a central, well-defined research focus or objective. the p01 is a confederation of interrelated research projects, each capable of standing on its own scientific merit but complementing one another. an application submitted to this foa must include at least three individual research projects that contribute to the program objective. the individual research projects should reflect a distinct, separate, scientifically meritorious research effort led by independent investigators who will serve as the project leaders. in addition, the individual projects should be clearly interrelated and synergistic so that the research ideas, efforts, and outcomes of the program as a whole will offer a distinct advantage over pursuing the projects separately. additionally, the program project must include an administrative core leader to manage day-to-day activities across the program project, communication among project and core leaders, contractual activities (if any), and other overall program project activities, such as leadership meetings. the administrative core leader must be a program director/principal investigator (pd/pi) of the program project, and every pd/pi of the overall project must also be a pd/pi of at least one project within the p01.in addition to individual research projects and the administrative core, applicants may propose one or more shared resource core, if needed for the proposed research. each shared resource core must be utilized by two or more projects within the program.revision applicationsrevision applications expand the scope of a current p01 award. the proposed topic must be both related to the current focus of the funded research and relevant to the mission of nia. the revision may propose to expand existing projects or create new projects within the existing p01. however, nia will not accept applications that are proposing to expand existing cores or to create new cores unless the application also proposes changes to projects. new cores may be proposed and/or existing cores may be augmented to support the proposed research.revision applications should be submitted as appropriate to the science proposed. for example, if two different ideas are being considered, they should be submitted as two different revision applications. on the other hand, if a single concept spans several projects or cores, then that concept should be submitted as a single revision.a revision application may be submitted only after the parent p01 has been funded. revision applications may not request support beyond the end date of the parent award.clinical researchnia will not provide support to a program project whose overall theme and structure are a clinical trial. however, nia will consider support to clinical trials when they constitute a single project (with core support) in a program project that has a broader overall theme.nia supports a central resource to nia staff and extramural investigators to facilitate/support the conduct and management of clinical research. this resource, the clinical research operations management system (croms), is a comprehensive data management system to support the business functions, management, and oversight responsibilities of nia grants that support the conduct of clinical research with human subjects. it is the expectation by nia that all successful applicants will interface, integrate, or adapt their information system(s) and processes to interact with existing and future components of the croms as necessary, including the use of a croms data templates as specified.see section viii. other information for award authorities and regulations.grant: a support mechanism providing money, property, or both to an eligible entity to carry out an approved project or activity.optional: accepting applications that either propose or do not propose clinical trial(s).the number of awards is contingent upon nih appropriations and the submission of a sufficient number of meritorious applications.application budgets are not limited but need to reflect the actual needs of the proposed project. further information on budgets for nia p01 applications can be found on nia's grants & funding page.the scope of the proposed project should determine the project period. the maximum project period is 5 years.nih grants policies as described in the nih grants policy statement will apply to the applications submitted and awards made from this foa.1. eligible applicantshigher education institutionsthe following types of higher education institutions are always encouraged to apply for nih support as public or private institutions of higher education:nonprofits other than institutions of higher educationfor-profit organizationslocal governmentsfederal governmentsnon-domestic (non-u.s.) entities (foreign institutions) are not eligible to apply.non-domestic (non-u.s.) components of u.s. organizations are not eligible to apply.foreign components, as defined in the nih grants policy statement, are allowed.applicant organizationsapplicant organizations must complete and maintain the following registrations as described in the sf 424 (r&r) application guide to be eligible to apply for or receive an award. all registrations must be completed prior to the application being submitted. registration can take 6 weeks or more, so applicants should begin the registration process as soon as possible. the nih policy on late submission of grant applications states that failure to complete registrations in advance of a due date is not a valid reason for a late submission.program directors/principal investigators (pd(s)/pi(s))all pd(s)/pi(s) must have an era commons account. pd(s)/pi(s) should work with their organizational officials to either create a new account or to affiliate their existing account with the applicant organization in era commons. if the pd/pi is also the organizational signing official, they must have two distinct era commons accounts, one for each role. obtaining an era commons account can take up to 2 weeks.any individual(s) with the skills, knowledge, and resources necessary to carry out the proposed research as the program director(s)/principal investigator(s) (pd(s)/pi(s)) is invited to work with his/her organization to develop an application for support. individuals from underrepresented racial and ethnic groups as well as individuals with disabilities are always encouraged to apply for nih support.for institutions/organizations proposing multiple pds/pis, visit the multiple program director/principal investigator policy and submission details in the senior/key person profile (expanded) component of the sf424 (r&r) application guide.2. cost sharingthis foa does not require cost sharing as defined in the nih grants policy statement.3. additional information on eligibilitynumber of applicationsapplicant organizations may submit more than one application, provided that each application is scientifically distinct.the nih will not accept duplicate or highly overlapping applications under review at the same time, per 2.3.7.4 submission of resubmission application. this means that the nih will not accept:1. requesting an application packagethe application forms package specific to this opportunity must be accessed through assist or an institutional system-to-system solution. a button to apply using assist is available in part 1 of this foa. see your administrative office for instructions if you plan to use an institutional system-to-system solution.2. content and form of application submissionit is critical that applicants follow the multi-project (m) instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, except where instructed in this funding opportunity announcement to do otherwise and where instructions in the application guide are directly related to the grants.gov downloadable forms currently used with most nih opportunities. conformance to the requirements in the application guide is required and strictly enforced. applications that are out of compliance with these instructions may be delayed or not accepted for review.letter of intentalthough a letter of intent is not required, is not binding, and does not enter into the review of a subsequent application, the information that it contains allows nia's staff to estimate the potential review workload and plan the review.by the date listed in part 1. overview information, prospective applicants are asked to submit a letter of intent that includes the following information:the letter of intent should be sent to:ramesh vemuri, ph.d. national institute on aging (nia) telephone: 301-496-9666 email: ramesh.vemuri@nih.govpage limitationsall page limitations described in the sf424 application guide and the table of page limits must be followed.instructions for the submission of multi-component applicationsthe following section supplements the instructions found in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, and should be used for preparing a multi-component application.the application should consist of the following components:revision applications must include an overall component and the components that are affected by the revision.overall componentwhen preparing your application, use component type ‘overall’.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed, with the following additional instructions, as noted.sf424(r&r) cover (overall)complete entire form.phs 398 cover page supplement (overall)note: human embryonic stem cell lines from other components should be repeated in cell line table in overall component.research & related other project information (overall)follow standard instructions.project/performance site locations (overall)enter primary site only.a summary of project/performance sites in the overall section of the assembled application image in era commons compiled from data collected in the other components will be generated upon submission.research and related senior/key person profile (overall)include only the project director/principal investigator (pd/pi) and any multi-pds/pis (if applicable to this foa) for the entire application.a summary of senior/key persons followed by their biographical sketches in the overall section of the assembled application image in era commons will be generated upon submission.budget (overall)the only budget information included in the overall component is the estimated project funding section of the sf424 (r&r) cover.a budget summary in the overall section of the assembled application image in era commons compiled from detailed budget data collected in the other components will be generated upon submission.phs 398 research plan (overall)note: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023, the data management and sharing (dms) plan will be attached in the other plan(s) attachment of the overall component in forms-h and subsequent application forms packages. for due dates on or before january 24, 2023, the data sharing plan and genomic data sharing plan gds) will continue to be attached in the resource sharing plan attachment in forms-g application forms packages.all applicants planning research (funded or conducted in whole or in part by nih) that results in the generation of scientific data are required to comply with the instructions for the data management and sharing plan. all applications, regardless of the amount of direct costs requested for any one year, must address a data management and sharing plan. the data management and sharing (dms) plan must be provided in the overall component.introduction to application: for resubmission and revision applications, an introduction to application is required in the overall component.specific aims: describe the aims of the program project and how each individual project and core contributes to these aims.revisions: describe how the aims of the revision application expand the aims of the program project. what does the overall program gain from this revision?resubmissions or renewals: if the structure of projects and cores has changed, identify the cores and projects consecutively (numbers for projects, letters for cores) according to how they are arranged in the current application. show the correspondence to the prior structure.research strategy:significance: all applications: focusing on the program project or revision as a whole, address (i) the importance of the problem or critical barrier to the field that the proposed project/revision addresses, (ii) how the proposed project/revision will improve scientific knowledge, technical capability, and/or clinical practice in one or more broad fields, (iii) how the concepts, methods, technologies, treatments, services, or preventive interventions that drive this field will be changed if the proposed aims are achieved, and (iv) (for revisions) how the outcomes of the program project will be enhanced by the proposed work on this revision.resubmissions or renewals: identify and justify any changes in research emphasis and funds requested. if the structure of projects and cores has changed, identify the cores and projects consecutively (numbers for projects and letters for cores) according to how they are arranged in the current application. show the correspondence to the prior structure.innovation: considering the program project as a whole, show how the proposed research seeks to shift current research or clinical practice paradigms through use of novel concepts, approaches, methodologies, instrumentation, or interventions. are these concepts, approaches, methodologies, instrumentation, or interventions novel to the research field or novel in a broad sense? does the proposed work refine, improve, or apply in a new way the concepts, approaches, methodologies, instrumentation, or interventions proposed?revisions or renewals: show how the proposed work enhances the innovation of the overall program project.approach:all applications: include the major approaches and studies involved in the application, showing how the approaches of cores and individual projects complement each other or are inter-dependent to allow the contribution of the whole program project to be greater than the total of the individual contributions of the cores and projects. describe the mechanisms that will ensure the coherence of the project and maintain a multidisciplinary focus.resubmissions or renewals: describe progress from the prior period of support that is of particular significance to the program project as a whole. if the current submission omits individual projects or cores that were active in the prior funding period, describe their progress and explain why they are omitted. identify and justify any substantive differences in approaches from the prior funding period.letters of support:renewals: provide letters of support that are relevant to the project as a whole.new or resubmissions: do not include the names of potential advisory committee members; however, you may identify the area(s) of expertise from which the members will be chosen.resource sharing plan: individuals are required to comply with the instructions for the resource sharing plans as provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.appendix:only limited items are allowed in the appendix. follow all instructions for the appendix as described in the sf424 (r&r) application guide; any instructions provided here are in addition to the sf424 (r&r) application guide instructions.phs human subjects and clinical trials information (overall)when involving human subjects research, clinical research, and/or nih-defined clinical trials follow all instructions for the phs human subjects and clinical trials information form in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, with the following additional instructions:if you answered “yes” to the question “are human subjects involved?” on the r&r other project information form, there must be at least one human subjects study record using the study record: phs human subjects and clinical trials information form or a delayed onset study record within the application. the study record(s) must be included in the component(s) where the work is being done, unless the same study spans multiple components. to avoid the creation of duplicate study records, a single study record with sufficient information for all involved components must be included in the overall component when the same study spans multiple components.study record: phs human subjects and clinical trials informationall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.delayed onset studynote: delayed onset does not apply to a study that can be described but will not start immediately (i.e., delayed start).all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.phs assignment request form (overall)all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.administrative corewhen preparing your application, use component type ‘admin core.’all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed, with the following additional instructions, as noted.sf424 (r&r) cover (administrative core)complete only the following fields:phs 398 cover page supplement (administrative core)enter human embryonic stem cells in each relevant component.research & related other project information (administrative core)human subjects: answer only the ‘are human subjects involved?’ and 'is the project exempt from federal regulations?’ questions.vertebrate animals: answer only the ‘are vertebrate animals used?’ question.project narrative: do not complete. note: assist screens will show an asterisk for this attachment indicating it is required. however, era systems only enforce this requirement in the overall component and applications will not receive an error if omitted in other components.project /performance site location(s) (administrative core)list all performance sites that apply to the specific component.note: the project performance site form allows up to 300 sites, prior to using additional attachment for additional entries.research & related senior/key person profile (administrative core)budget (administrative core)budget forms appropriate for the specific component will be included in the application package.note: the r&r budget form included in many of the component types allows for up to 100 senior/key persons in section a and 100 equipment items in section c prior to using attachments for additional entries. all other sf424 (r&r) instructions apply.phs 398 research plan (administrative core)introduction to application: for resubmission and revision applications, an introduction to application is allowed for each component.the most commonly referenced research plan attachments are listed below for your convenience. foa–specific instructions are required for the specific aims and the research strategy in each component. foa-specific instructions are optional for letters of support. delete “letters of support” if there are no foa-specific instructions.specific aims: the administrative core provides overall leadership to the program project, and the aims of the core should show the elements by which leadership and integration will be achieved, such as through common seminars and meetings, an external advisory board, and plans for joint dissemination of study results.for revisions: specific aims should show how the aims of the administrative core change to accommodate the revision.research strategy:significance: describe how the activities of the administrative core will implement the overall vision of the program project as an integrated investigation of a scientific field or problem in aging.for revisions: the application should show how the proposed changes to the administrative core are valuable in accommodating the expanded vision of the program project.approach: describe how the elements proposed in the administrative core will be operationalized to achieve transparent communication across projects and cores, cross-project fertilization and collaboration, and common objectives for the program project as a whole. elements should include, but not be limited to, means for internal quality control of research, management of day-to-day program activities, management of contractual agreements, resolution of disputes, and allocation of funds.for revisions: the application should describe any changes to the elements of the core and how they facilitate overall integration, management, or quality control. if proposing a new external advisory board, do not list proposed members in the application. instead, list intended areas of expertise.letters of support: if a renewal project previously had an external advisory board, then letters of support should be provided from members continuing in the next proposed period. do not provide letters of support from new members. do not contact or recruit new members until after the review process is completed.resource sharing plan: individuals are required to comply with the instructions for the resource sharing plans as provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, with the following modification:all applications, regardless of the amount of direct costs requested for any one year, should address a data sharing plan.appendix:only limited items are allowed in the appendix.follow all instructions for the appendix as described in the sf424 (r&r) application guide; any instructions provided here are in addition to the sf424 (r&r) application guide instructions.phs human subjects and clinical trials information (administrative core)when involving human subjects research, clinical research, and/or nih-defined clinical trials follow all instructions for the phs human subjects and clinical trials information form in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, with the following additional instructions:if you answered “yes” to the question “are human subjects involved?” on the r&r other project information form, you must include at least one human subjects study record using the study record: phs human subjects and clinical trials information form or a delayed onset study record.study record: phs human subjects and clinical trials informationall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followeddelayed onset studynote: delayed onset does not apply to a study that can be described but will not start immediately (i.e., delayed start).all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.corewhen preparing your application in assist, use component type ‘core.’ label the cores alphabetically, along with the core title. the administrative core is core a, the first optional core is core b, and so on.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed, with the following additional instructions, as noted.sf424 (r&r) cover (core)complete only the following fields:applicant informationtype of applicant (optional)descriptive title of applicant’s projectproposed core start/ending datesphs 398 cover page supplement (core)enter human embryonic stem cells in each relevant component.research & related other project information (core)human subjects: answer only the ‘are human subjects involved?’ and 'is the project exempt from federal regulations?’ questions.vertebrate animals: answer only the ‘are vertebrate animals used?’ question.project narrative: do not complete. note: assist screens will show an asterisk for this attachment indicating it is required. however, era systems only enforce this requirement in the overall component and applications will not receive an error if omitted in other components.project/performance site location(s) (core)list all performance sites that apply to the specific component.note: the project performance site form allows up to 300 sites prior to using additional attachment for additional entries.research & related senior/key person profile (core)in the project director/principal investigator section of the form, use project role of ‘other’ with category of core lead and provide a valid era commons id in the credential field.in the additional senior/key profiles section, list senior/key persons that are working in the component.include a single biographical sketch for each senior/key person listed in the application regardless of the number of components in which they participate. when a senior/key person is listed in multiple components, the biographical sketch can be included in any one component.if more than 100 senior/key persons are included in a component, the additional senior key person attachments should be used.budget (core)budget forms appropriate for the specific component will be included in the application package.note: the r&r budget form included in many of the component types allows for up to 100 senior/key persons in section a and 100 equipment items in section c prior to using attachments for additional entries. all other sf424 (r&r) instructions apply.phs 398 research plan (core)introduction to application: for resubmission and revision applications, an introduction to application is allowed for each component.specific aims: identify which projects the core will assist and the overall role of the core in the program project. each shared resource core must be utilitzed by two or more projects within the program.research strategy: organize the research strategy into sections on a. significance and b. approach. innovation will be considered in relation to approach and significance. it will not be reviewed as a separate criterion.letters of support: provide any letters of support that are specific to the relevant core.resource sharing plan: individuals are required to comply with the instructions for the resource sharing plans as provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.appendix: only limited items are allowed in the appendix. follow all instructions for the appendix as described in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.phs human subjects and clinical trials information (core)when involving nih-defined human subjects research, clinical research, and/or clinical trials follow all instructions for the phs human subjects and clinical trials information form in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, with the following additional instructions:if you answered “yes” to the question “are human subjects involved?” on the r&r other project information form, you must include at least one human subjects study record using the study record: phs human subjects and clinical trials information form or a delayed onset study record.study record: phs human subjects and clinical trials information: all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.delayed onset study: all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.projectwhen preparing your application in assist, use component type ‘project.’all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed, with the following additional instructions, as noted.sf424 (r&r) cover (project)complete only the following fields:applicant informationtype of applicant (optional)descriptive title of applicant’s projectproposed project start/ending datesphs 398 cover page supplement (project)enter human embryonic stem cells in each relevant component.research & related other project information (project)human subjects: answer only the ‘are human subjects involved?’ and 'is the project exempt from federal regulations?’ questions.vertebrate animals: answer only the ‘are vertebrate animals used?’ question.project narrative: do not complete. note: assist screens will show an asterisk for this attachment indicating it is required. however, era systems only enforce this requirement in the overall component and applications will not receive an error if omitted in other components.project /performance site location(s) (project)list all performance sites that apply to the specific component.note: the project performance site form allows up to 300 sites, prior to using additional attachment for additional entries.research & related senior/key person profile (project)in the project director/principal investigator section of the form, use project role of ‘other’ with category of project lead and provide a valid era commons id in the credential field.in the additional senior/key profiles section, list senior/key persons that are working in the component.include a single biographical sketch for each senior/key person listed in the application regardless of the number of components in which they participate. when a senior/key person is listed in multiple components, the biographical sketch can be included in any one component.if more than 100 senior/key persons are included in a component, the additional senior key person attachments should be used.budget (project)budget forms appropriate for the specific component will be included in the application package.note: the r&r budget form included in many of the component types allows for up to 100 senior/key persons in section a and 100 equipment items in section c prior to using attachments for additional entries. all other sf424 (r&r) instructions apply.phs 398 research plan (project)introduction to application: for resubmission and revision applications, an introduction to application is allowed for each component.specific aims: at least one aim of the project should reflect the overall theme of the program project.research strategy: the research strategy should be organized into sections on significance, innovation, and approach. the significance section should include discussion of how this project relates to overall program goals.letters of support: provide any letters of support that are specific to this project. if a renewing project previously had an external advisory board then letters of support should be provided from members continuing in the next proposed period. do not provide letters of support from proposed new members. do not contact or recruit new members until after the review process is completed.resource sharing plan: individuals are required to comply with the instructions for the resource sharing plans as provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.appendix: only limited items are allowed in the appendix. follow all instructions for the appendix as described in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.phs human subjects and clinical trials information (project)when involving nih-defined human subjects research, clinical research, and/or clinical trials follow all instructions for the phs human subjects and clinical trials information form in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, with the following additional instructions:if you answered “yes” to the question “are human subjects involved?” on the r&r other project information form, you must include at least one human subjects study record using the study record: phs human subjects and clinical trials information form or a delayed onset study record.study record: phs human subjects and clinical trials information: all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.delayed onset study: all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.3. unique entity identifier and system for award management (sam)see part 1. section iii.1 for information regarding the requirement for obtaining a unique entity identifier and for completing and maintaining active registrations in system for award management (sam), nato commercial and government entity (ncage) code (if applicable), era commons, and grants.gov.4. submission dates and timespart i. overview information contains information about key dates and times. applicants are encouraged to submit applications before the due date to ensure they have time to make any application corrections that might be necessary for successful submission. when a submission date falls on a weekend or federal holiday, the application deadline is automatically extended to the next business day.organizations must submit applications to grants.gov (the online portal to find and apply for grants across all federal agencies) using assist or other electronic submission systems. applicants must then complete the submission process by tracking the status of the application in the era commons, nih’s electronic system for grants administration. nih and grants.gov systems check the application against many of the application instructions upon submission. errors must be corrected and a changed/corrected application must be submitted to grants.gov on or before the application due date and time. if a changed/corrected application is submitted after the deadline, the application will be considered late. applications that miss the due date and time are subjected to the nih policy on late application submission.applicants are responsible for viewing their application before the due date in the era commons to ensure accurate and successful submission.information on the submission process and a definition of on-time submission are provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.5. intergovernmental review (e.o. 12372)this initiative is not subject to intergovernmental review.6. funding restrictionsall nih awards are subject to the terms and conditions, cost principles, and other considerations described in the nih grants policy statement.pre-award costs are allowable only as described in the nih grants policy statement.7. other submission requirements and informationapplications must be submitted electronically following the instructions described in the sf424 (r&r) application guide. paper applications will not be accepted.for information on how your application will be automatically assembled for review and funding consideration after submission go to: http://grants.nih.gov/grants/electronicreceipt/files/electronic_multi-project_application_image_assembly.pdf.applicants must complete all required registrations before the application due date. section iii. eligibility information contains information about registration.for assistance with your electronic application or for more information on the electronic submission process, visit how to apply – application guide. if you encounter a system issue beyond your control that threatens your ability to complete the submission process on-time, you must follow the dealing with system issues guidance. for assistance with application submission, contact the application submission contacts in section vii.important reminders:all pd(s)/pi(s) and component project leads must include their era commons id in the credential fieldof the senior/key person profile form. failure to register in the commons and to include a valid pd/pi commons id in the credential field will prevent the successful submission of an electronic application to nih.the applicant organization must ensure that the unique entity identifier (duns number or uei as required) provided on the application is the same number used in the organization’s profile in the era commons and for the system for award management. additional information may be found in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.see more tips for avoiding common errors.upon receipt, applications will be evaluated for completeness and compliance with application instructions by the center for scientific review, nih. applications that are incomplete or non-compliant will not be reviewed.upon receipt, applications will be evaluated for completeness and compliance with application instructions by the center for scientific review, nih. applications that are incomplete or non-compliant will not be reviewed.in order to expedite review, applicants are requested to notify the nia referral office by email at ramesh.vemuri@nih.gov when the application has been submitted. please include the foa number and title, pd/pi name, and title of the application.requests of $500,000 or more for direct costs in any yearapplicants requesting $500,000 or more in direct costs in any year (excluding consortium f&a) must contact a scientific/ research contact at least 6 weeks before submitting the application and follow the policy on the acceptance for review of unsolicited applications that request $500,000 or more in direct costs as described in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.nia rarely funds program project awards with budgets of more than $2 million in direct costs (f&a costs of subcontracts excluded). exceptions are considered by an nia-wide committee of senior staff.post submission materialsapplicants are required to follow the instructions for post-submission materials, as described in the policy. any instructions provided here are in addition to the instructions in the policy.note: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023, the data sharing plan and genomic data sharing plan (gds) as part of the resource sharing plan will not be evaluated at time of review.only the review criteria described below will be considered in the review process. applications submitted to the nih in support of the nih mission are evaluated for scientific and technical merit through the nih peer review system.a proposed clinical trial application may include study design, methods, and intervention that are not by themselves innovative but address important questions or unmet needs. additionally, the results of the clinical trial may indicate that further clinical development of the intervention is unwarranted or lead to new avenues of scientific investigation.reviewers will provide an overall impact score to reflect their assessment of the likelihood for the project to exert a sustained, powerful influence on the research field(s) involved, in consideration of the following review criteria and additional review criteria (as applicable for the project proposed).reviewers will consider each of the review criteria below in the determination of scientific merit, and give a separate score for each. an application does not need to be strong in all categories to be judged likely to have major scientific impact. for example, a project that by its nature is not innovative may be essential to advance a field.significancedoes the project address an important problem or a critical barrier to progress in the field? is the prior research that serves as the key support for the proposed project rigorous? if the aims of the project are achieved, how will scientific knowledge, technical capability, and/or clinical practice be improved? how will successful completion of the aims change the concepts, methods, technologies, treatments, services, or preventative interventions that drive this field?in addition, for applications involving clinical trialsare the scientific rationale and need for a clinical trial to test the proposed hypothesis or intervention well supported by preliminary data, clinical and/or preclinical studies, or information in the literature or knowledge of biological mechanisms? for trials focusing on clinical or public health endpoints, is this clinical trial necessary for testing the safety, efficacy or effectiveness of an intervention that could lead to a change in clinical practice, community behaviors or health care policy? for trials focusing on mechanistic, behavioral, physiological, biochemical, or other biomedical endpoints, is this trial needed to advance scientific understanding?investigator(s)are the pd(s)/pi(s), collaborators, and other researchers well suited to the project? if early stage investigators or those in the early stages of independent careers, do they have appropriate experience and training? if established, have they demonstrated an ongoing record of accomplishments that have advanced their field(s)? if the project is collaborative or multi-pd/pi, do the investigators have complementary and integrated expertise; are their leadership approach, governance and organizational structure appropriate for the project?in addition, for applications involving clinical trialswith regard to the proposed leadership for the project, do the pd/pi(s) and key personnel have the expertise, experience, and ability to organize, manage and implement the proposed clinical trial and meet milestones and timelines? do they have appropriate expertise in study coordination, data management and statistics? for a multicenter trial, is the organizational structure appropriate and does the application identify a core of potential center investigators and staffing for a coordinating center?innovationdoes the application challenge and seek to shift current research or clinical practice paradigms by utilizing novel theoretical concepts, approaches or methodologies, instrumentation, or interventions? are the concepts, approaches or methodologies, instrumentation, or interventions novel to one field of research or novel in a broad sense? is a refinement, improvement, or new application of theoretical concepts, approaches or methodologies, instrumentation, or interventions proposed?in addition, for applications involving clinical trialsdoes the design/research plan include innovative elements, as appropriate, that enhance its sensitivity, potential for information or potential to advance scientific knowledge or clinical practice?approachare the overall strategy, methodology, and analyses well-reasoned and appropriate to accomplish the specific aims of the project? have the investigators included plans to address weaknesses in the rigor of prior research that serves as the key support for the proposed project? have the investigators presented strategies to ensure a robust and unbiased approach, as appropriate for the work proposed? are potential problems, alternative strategies, and benchmarks for success presented? if the project is in the early stages of development, will the strategy establish feasibility and will particularly risky aspects be managed? have the investigators presented adequate plans to address relevant biological variables, such as sex, for studies in vertebrate animals or human subjects?if the project involves human subjects and/or nih-defined clinical research, are the plans to address 1) the protection of human subjects from research risks, and 2) inclusion (or exclusion) of individuals on the basis of sex/gender, race, and ethnicity, as well as the inclusion or exclusion of individuals of all ages (including children and older adults), justified in terms of the scientific goals and research strategy proposed?in addition, for applications involving clinical trialsdoes the application adequately address the following, if applicable:study designis the study design justified and appropriate to address primary and secondary outcome variable(s)/endpoints that will be clear, informative and relevant to the hypothesis being tested? is the scientific rationale/premise of the study based on previously well-designed preclinical and/or clinical research? given the methods used to assign participants and deliver interventions, is the study design adequately powered to answer the research question(s), test the proposed hypothesis/hypotheses, and provide interpretable results? is the trial appropriately designed to conduct the research efficiently? are the study populations (size, gender, age, demographic group), proposed intervention arms/dose, and duration of the trial, appropriate and well justified?are potential ethical issues adequately addressed? is the process for obtaining informed consent or assent appropriate? is the eligible population available? are the plans for recruitment outreach, enrollment, retention, handling dropouts, missed visits, and losses to follow-up appropriate to ensure robust data collection? are the planned recruitment timelines feasible and is the plan to monitor accrual adequate? has the need for randomization (or not), masking (if appropriate), controls, and inclusion/exclusion criteria been addressed? are differences addressed, if applicable, in the intervention effect due to sex/gender and race/ethnicity?are the plans to standardize, assure quality of, and monitor adherence to, the trial protocol and data collection or distribution guidelines appropriate? is there a plan to obtain required study agent(s)? does the application propose to use existing available resources, as applicable?data management and statistical analysisare planned analyses and statistical approach appropriate for the proposed study design and methods used to assign participants and deliver interventions? are the procedures for data management and quality control of data adequate at clinical site(s) or at center laboratories, as applicable? have the methods for standardization of procedures for data management to assess the effect of the intervention and quality control been addressed? is there a plan to complete data analysis within the proposed period of the award?environmentwill the scientific environment in which the work will be done contribute to the probability of success? are the institutional support, equipment and other physical resources available to the investigators adequate for the project proposed? will the project benefit from unique features of the scientific environment, subject populations, or collaborative arrangements?in addition, for applications involving clinical trialsif proposed, are the administrative, data coordinating, enrollment and laboratory/testing centers, appropriate for the trial proposed?does the application adequately address the capability and ability to conduct the trial at the proposed site(s) or centers? are the plans to add or drop enrollment centers, as needed, appropriate?if international site(s) is/are proposed, does the application adequately address the complexity of executing the clinical trial?if multi-sites/centers, is there evidence of the ability of the individual site or center to: (1) enroll the proposed numbers; (2) adhere to the protocol; (3) collect and transmit data in an accurate and timely fashion; and, (4) operate within the proposed organizational structure?as applicable for the project proposed, reviewers will evaluate the following additional items while determining scientific and technical merit, and in providing an overall impact score, but will not give separate scores for these items.study timelinespecific to applications involving clinical trialsis the study timeline described in detail, taking into account start-up activities, the anticipated rate of enrollment, and planned follow-up assessment? is the projected timeline feasible and well justified? does the project incorporate efficiencies and utilize existing resources (e.g., ctsas, practice-based research networks, electronic medical records, administrative database, or patient registries) to increase the efficiency of participant enrollment and data collection, as appropriate?are potential challenges and corresponding solutions discussed (e.g., strategies that can be implemented in the event of enrollment shortfalls)?protections for human subjectsfor research that involves human subjects but does not involve one of the categories of research that are exempt under 45 cfr part 46, the committee will evaluate the justification for involvement of human subjects and the proposed protections from research risk relating to their participation according to the following five review criteria: 1) risk to subjects, 2) adequacy of protection against risks, 3) potential benefits to the subjects and others, 4) importance of the knowledge to be gained, and 5) data and safety monitoring for clinical trials.for research that involves human subjects and meets the criteria for one or more of the categories of research that are exempt under 45 cfr part 46, the committee will evaluate: 1) the justification for the exemption, 2) human subjects involvement and characteristics, and 3) sources of materials. for additional information on review of the human subjects section, please refer to the guidelines for the review of human subjects.inclusion of women, minorities, and individuals across the lifespanwhen the proposed project involves human subjects and/or nih-defined clinical research, the committee will evaluate the proposed plans for the inclusion (or exclusion) of individuals on the basis of sex/gender, race, and ethnicity, as well as the inclusion (or exclusion) of individuals of all ages (including children and older adults) to determine if it is justified in terms of the scientific goals and research strategy proposed. for additional information on review of the inclusion section, please refer to the guidelines for the review of inclusion in clinical research.vertebrate animalsthe committee will evaluate the involvement of live vertebrate animals as part of the scientific assessment according to the following criteria: (1) description of proposed procedures involving animals, including species, strains, ages, sex, and total number to be used; (2) justifications for the use of animals versus alternative models and for the appropriateness of the species proposed; (3) interventions to minimize discomfort, distress, pain and injury; and (4) justification for euthanasia method if not consistent with the avma guidelines for the euthanasia of animals. reviewers will assess the use of chimpanzees as they would any other application proposing the use of vertebrate animals. for additional information on review of the vertebrate animals section, please refer to the worksheet for review of the vertebrate animal section.biohazardsreviewers will assess whether materials or procedures proposed are potentially hazardous to research personnel and/or the environment, and if needed, determine whether adequate protection is proposed.resubmissionsfor resubmissions, the committee will evaluate the application as now presented, taking into consideration the responses to comments from the previous scientific review group and changes made to the project.renewalsfor renewals, the committee will consider the progress made in the last funding period.revisionsfor revisions, the committee will consider the appropriateness of the proposed expansion of the scope of the project. if the revision application relates to a specific line of investigation presented in the original application that was not recommended for approval by the committee, then the committee will consider whether the responses to comments from the previous scientific review group are adequate and whether substantial changes are clearly evident.as applicable for the project proposed, reviewers will consider each of the following items, but will not give scores for these items, and should not consider them in providing an overall impact score.applications from foreign organizationsnot applicableselect agent researchreviewers will assess the information provided in this section of the application, including 1) the select agent(s) to be used in the proposed research, 2) the registration status of all entities where select agent(s) will be used, 3) the procedures that will be used to monitor possession use and transfer of select agent(s), and 4) plans for appropriate biosafety, biocontainment, and security of the select agent(s).resource sharing plansreviewers will comment on whether the following resource sharing plans, or the rationale for not sharing the following types of resources, are reasonable: (1) data sharing plan; (2) sharing model organisms; and (3) genomic data sharing plan (gds).authentication of key biological and/or chemical resources:for projects involving key biological and/or chemical resources, reviewers will comment on the brief plans proposed for identifying and ensuring the validity of those resources.budget and period of supportreviewers will consider whether the budget and the requested period of support are fully justified and reasonable in relation to the proposed research.scored review criteria - all coresreviewers will consider each review criterion below in the determination of scientific merit, but will not assign an overall score, or separate criterion scores, for the core components. instead of scores, a descriptive analysis of the enthusiasm will be provided for each core. a core does not need to be strong in all categories to be judged likely to have major scientific impact. a core will be judged based on the support that it provides the projects.significancedoes the core address an important problem or a critical barrier to progress in the field? is the prior research that serves as the key support for the proposed project rigorous? if the aims of the core are achieved, how will scientific knowledge, technical capability, and/or clinical practice be improved? how will successful completion of the aims change the concepts, methods, technologies, treatments, services, or preventative interventions that drive this field?specific to this foa: what is the value of the core to the overall program project and to particular projects? does the core support at least two projects? for the administrative core, how well do the described activities integrate the separate elements of the program project and provide overall direction? how well do proposed dissemination activities (workshops, meetings, joint papers) reflect an integrated program project?investigator(s)are the core leads, collaborators, and other researchers well suited to the core? if early stage investigators or those in the early stages of independent careers, do they have appropriate experience and training? if established, have they demonstrated an ongoing record of accomplishments that have advanced their field(s)? if the core is collaborative or has multi-leads, do the investigators have complementary and integrated expertise; are their leadership approach, governance, and organizational structure appropriate for the core?specific to this foa: for the administrative core: how well do the core leader's administrative, management, and leadership capabilities provide oversight and direction to the management activities of the core?innovationdoes the application challenge and seek to shift current research or clinical practice paradigms by utilizing novel theoretical concepts, approaches or methodologies, instrumentation, or interventions? are the concepts, approaches or methodologies, instrumentation, or interventions novel to one field of research or novel in a broad sense? is a refinement, improvement, or new application of theoretical concepts, approaches or methodologies, instrumentation, or interventions proposed?approachare the overall strategy, methodology, and analyses well-reasoned and appropriate to accomplish the specific aims of the core? have investigators included plans to address weaknesses in the rigor of prior research that serves as the key support for the proposed project? have the investigators presented strategies to ensure a robust and unbiased approach, as appropriate for the work proposed? are potential problems, alternative strategies, and benchmarks for success presented? if the core is in the early stages of development, will the strategy establish feasibility, and will particularly risky aspects be managed? have the investigators presented adequate plans to address relevant biological variables, such as sex, for studies in vertebrate animals or human subjects?if the core involves human subjects and/or nih-defined clinical research, are the plans to address 1) the protection of human subjects from research risks, and 2) inclusion (or exclusion) of individuals on the basis of sex/gender, race, and ethnicity, as well as the inclusion or exclusion of individuals of all ages (including children and older adults), justified in terms of the scientific goals and research strategy proposed?specific to this foa: for the administrative core: are the operational plan and organizational structure well justified? is the core adequate to support and encourage optimal interactions among the overall program team? how appropriate are the plans for internal quality control of research, management of day-to-day program activities, management of contractual agreements, resolution of disputes, and allocation of funds?environmentwill the scientific environment in which the work will be done contribute to the probability of success? are the institutional support, equipment, and other physical resources available to the investigators adequate for the core proposed? will the core benefit from unique features of the scientific environment, subject populations, or collaborative arrangements?additional review criteria - all coresas applicable for the project proposed, reviewers will evaluate the following additional items while determining scientific and technical merit, and in providing an overall impact score, but will not give separate scores for these items.protections for human subjectsfor research that involves human subjects but does not involve one of the categories of research that are exempt under 45 cfr part 46, the committee will evaluate the justification for involvement of human subjects and the proposed protections from research risk relating to their participation according to the following five review criteria: 1) risk to subjects, 2) adequacy of protection against risks, 3) potential benefits to the subjects and others, 4) importance of the knowledge to be gained, and 5) data and safety monitoring for clinical trials.for research that involves human subjects and meets the criteria for one or more of the categories of research that are exempt under 45 cfr part 46, the committee will evaluate: 1) the justification for the exemption, 2) human subjects involvement and characteristics, and 3) sources of materials. for additional information on review of the human subjects section, please refer to the guidelines for the review of human subjects.inclusion of women, minorities, and individuals across the lifespanwhen the proposed program project involves human subjects and/or nih-defined clinical research, the committee will evaluate the proposed plans for the inclusion (or exclusion) of individuals on the basis of sex/gender, race, and ethnicity, as well as the inclusion (or exclusion) of individuals of all ages (including children and older adults) to determine if it is justified in terms of the scientific goals and research strategy proposed. for additional information on review of the inclusion section, please refer to the guidelines for the review of inclusion in clinical research.vertebrate animalsthe committee will evaluate the involvement of live vertebrate animals as part of the scientific assessment according to the following criteria: (1) description of proposed procedures involving animals, including species, strains, ages, sex, and total number to be used; (2) justifications for the use of animals versus alternative models and for the appropriateness of the species proposed; (3) interventions to minimize discomfort, distress, pain and injury; and (4) justification for euthanasia method if not consistent with the avma guidelines for the euthanasia of animals. reviewers will assess the use of chimpanzees as they would any other application proposing the use of vertebrate animals. for additional information on review of the vertebrate animals section, please refer to the worksheet for review of the vertebrate animal section.biohazardsreviewers will assess whether materials or procedures proposed are potentially hazardous to research personnel and/or the environment, and if needed, determine whether adequate protection is proposed.resubmissionsfor resubmissions, the committee will evaluate the application as now presented, taking into consideration the responses to comments from the previous scientific review group and changes made to the project.renewalsfor renewals, the committee will consider the progress made in the last funding period.revisionsfor revisions, the committee will consider the appropriateness of the proposed expansion of the scope of the project. if the revision application relates to a specific line of investigation presented in the original application that was not recommended for approval by the committee, then the committee will consider whether the responses to comments from the previous scientific review group are adequate and whether substantial changes are clearly evident.additional review considerations - all coresas applicable for the project proposed, reviewers will consider each of the following items, but will not give scores for these items, and should not consider them in providing an overall impact score.applications from foreign organizationsnot applicableselect agent researchreviewers will assess the information provided in this section of the application, including 1) the select agent(s) to be used in the proposed research, 2) the registration status of all entities where select agent(s) will be used, 3) the procedures that will be used to monitor possession use and transfer of select agent(s), and 4) plans for appropriate biosafety, biocontainment, and security of the select agent(s).resource sharing plansreviewers will comment on whether the following resource sharing plans, or the rationale for not sharing the following types of resources, are reasonable: 1) data sharing plan; 2) sharing model organisms; and 3) genomic data sharing plan.authentication of key biological and/or chemical resourcesfor projects involving key biological and/or chemical resources, reviewers will comment on the brief plans proposed for identifying and ensuring the validity of those resources.budget and period of supportreviewers will consider whether the budget and the requested period of support are fully justified and reasonable in relation to the proposed research.scored review criteria - projectsreviewers will consider each of the review criteria below in the determination of scientific merit, and give a separate score for each. an application does not need to be strong in all categories to be judged likely to have major scientific impact. for example, a project that by its nature is not innovative may be essential to advance a field.in addition, for applications involving clinical trials: a proposed clinical trial application may include study design, methods, and intervention that are not by themselves innovative but address important questions or unmet needs. additionally, the results of the clinical trial may indicate that further clinical development of the intervention is unwarranted or lead to new avenues of scientific investigation.significancedoes the project address an important problem or a critical barrier to progress in the field? is the prior research that serves as the key support for the proposed project rigorous? if the aims of the project are achieved, how will scientific knowledge, technical capability, and/or clinical practice be improved? how will successful completion of the aims change the concepts, methods, technologies, treatments, services, or preventative interventions that drive this field? how well does the project contribute to the overall aims of the program project?in addition, for applications involving clinical trials: are the scientific rationale and need for a clinical trial to test the proposed hypothesis or intervention well supported by preliminary data, clinical and/or preclinical studies, or information in the literature or knowledge of biological mechanisms? for trials focusing on clinical or public health endpoints, is this clinical trial necessary for testing the safety, efficacy or effectiveness of an intervention that could lead to a change in clinical practice, community behaviors or health care policy? for trials focusing on mechanistic, behavioral, physiological, biochemical, or other biomedical endpoints, is the trial needed to advance scientific understanding?investigator(s)are the project leads, collaborators, and other researchers well suited to the project? if early stage investigators or those in the early stages of independent careers, do they have appropriate experience and training? if established, have they demonstrated an ongoing record of accomplishments that have advanced their field(s)? if the project is collaborative or has multi project-leads, do the investigators have complementary and integrated expertise; are their leadership approach, governance, and organizational structure appropriate for the project?in addition, for applications involving clinical trials: with regard to the proposed leadership for the project, do the pd/pi(s) and key personnel have the expertise, experience, and ability to organize, manage and implement the proposed clinical trial and meet milestones and timelines? do they have appropriate expertise in study coordination, data management and statistics? for a multicenter trial, is the organizational structure appropriate and does the application identify a core of potential center investigators and staffing for a coordinating center?innovationdoes the application challenge and seek to shift current research or clinical practice paradigms by utilizing novel theoretical concepts, approaches or methodologies, instrumentation, or interventions? are the concepts, approaches or methodologies, instrumentation, or interventions novel to one field of research or novel in a broad sense? is a refinement, improvement, or new application of theoretical concepts, approaches or methodologies, instrumentation, or interventions proposed?in addition, for applications involving clinical trials: does the design/research plan include innovative elements, as appropriate, that enhance its sensitivity, potential for information, or potential to advance scientific knowledge or clinical practice?approachare the overall strategy, methodology, and analyses well-reasoned and appropriate to accomplish the specific aims of the project? have investigators included plans to address weaknesses in the rigor of prior research that serves as the key support for the proposed project? have the investigators presented strategies to ensure a robust and unbiased approach, as appropriate for the work proposed? are potential problems, alternative strategies, and benchmarks for success presented? if the project is in the early stages of development, will the strategy establish feasibility, and will particularly risky aspects be managed? have the investigators presented adequate plans to address relevant biological variables, such as sex, for studies in vertebrate animals or human subjects?if the project involves human subjects and/or nih-defined clinical research, are the plans to address 1) the protection of human subjects from research risks, and 2) inclusion (or exclusion) of individuals on the basis of sex/gender, race, and ethnicity, as well as the inclusion or exclusion of individuals of all ages (including children and older adults), justified in terms of the scientific goals and research strategy proposed?in addition, for applications involving clinical trials: does the application adequately address the following, if applicable:study designis the study design justified and appropriate to address primary and secondary outcome variable(s)/endpoints that will be clear, informative, and relevant to the hypothesis being tested? is the scientific rationale/premise of the study based on previously well-designed preclinical and/or clinical research? given the methods used to assign participants and deliver interventions, is the study design adequately powered to answer the research question(s), test the proposed hypothesis/hypotheses, and provide interpretable results? is the trial appropriately designed to conduct the research efficiently? are the study populations (size, gender, age, demographic group), proposed intervention arms/dose, and duration of the trial appropriate and well justified?are potential ethical issues adequately addressed? is the process for obtaining informed consent or assent appropriate? is the eligible population available? are the plans for recruitment outreach, enrollment, retention, handling dropouts, missed visits, and losses to follow-up appropriate to ensure robust data collection? are the planned recruitment timelines feasible, and is the plan to monitor accrual adequate? has the need for randomization (or not), masking (if appropriate), controls, and inclusion/exclusion criteria been addressed? are differences addressed, if applicable, in the intervention effect due to sex/gender and race/ethnicity?are the plans to standardize, assure quality of, and monitor adherence to the trial protocol and data collection or distribution guidelines appropriate? is there a plan to obtain required study agent(s)? does the application propose to use existing available resources, as applicable?data management and statistical analysisare planned analyses and statistical approach appropriate for the proposed study design and methods used to assign participants and deliver interventions? are the procedures for data management and quality control of data adequate at clinical site(s) or at center laboratories, as applicable? have the methods for standardization of procedures for data management to assess the effect of the intervention and quality control been addressed? is there a plan to complete data analysis within the proposed period of the award?environmentwill the scientific environment in which the work will be done contribute to the probability of success? are the institutional support, equipment and other physical resources available to the investigators adequate for the project proposed? will the project benefit from unique features of the scientific environment, subject populations, or collaborative arrangements?in addition, for applications involving clinical trials: if proposed, are the administrative, data coordinating, enrollment, and laboratory/testing centers appropriate for the trial proposed? does the application adequately address the capability and ability to conduct the trial at the proposed site(s) or centers? are the plans to add or drop enrollment centers, as needed, appropriate? if international site(s) is/are proposed, does the application adequately address the complexity of executing the clinical trial? if multi-sites/centers, is there evidence of the ability of the individual site or center to: (1) enroll the proposed numbers, (2) adhere to the protocol, (3) collect and transmit data in an accurate and timely fashion, and (4) operate within the proposed organizational structure?additional review criteria - projectsas applicable for the project proposed, reviewers will evaluate the following additional items while determining scientific and technical merit and in providing an overall impact score, but will not give separate scores for these items.study timelinespecific to applications proposing clinical trials: is the study timeline described in detail, taking into account start-up activities, the anticipated rate of enrollment, and planned follow-up assessment? is the projected timeline feasible and well justified? does the project incorporate efficiencies and utilize existing resources (e.g., ctsas, practice-based research networks, electronic medical records, administrative database, or patient registries) to increase the efficiency of participant enrollment and data collection, as appropriate? are potential challenges and corresponding solutions discussed (e.g., strategies that can be implemented in the event of enrollment shortfalls)?protections for human subjectsfor research that involves human subjects but does not involve one of the categories of research that are exempt under 45 cfr part 46, the committee will evaluate the justification for involvement of human subjects and the proposed protections from research risk relating to their participation according to the following five review criteria: 1) risk to subjects, 2) adequacy of protection against risks, 3) potential benefits to the subjects and others, 4) importance of the knowledge to be gained, and 5) data and safety monitoring for clinical trials.for research that involves human subjects and meets the criteria for one or more of the categories of research that are exempt under 45 cfr part 46, the committee will evaluate: 1) the justification for the exemption, 2) human subjects involvement and characteristics, and 3) sources of materials. for additional information on review of the human subjects section, please refer to the guidelines for the review of human subjects.inclusion of women, minorities, and individuals across the lifespanwhen the proposed program project involves human subjects and/or nih-defined clinical research, the committee will evaluate the proposed plans for the inclusion (or exclusion) of individuals on the basis of sex/gender, race, and ethnicity, as well as the inclusion (or exclusion) of individuals of all ages (including children and older adults) to determine if it is justified in terms of the scientific goals and research strategy proposed. for additional information on review of the inclusion section, please refer to the guidelines for the review of inclusion in clinical research.vertebrate animalsthe committee will evaluate the involvement of live vertebrate animals as part of the scientific assessment according to the following criteria: (1) description of proposed procedures involving animals, including species, strains, ages, sex, and total number to be used; (2) justifications for the use of animals versus alternative models and for the appropriateness of the species proposed; (3) interventions to minimize discomfort, distress, pain, and injury; and (4) justification for euthanasia method if not consistent with the avma guidelines for the euthanasia of animals. reviewers will assess the use of chimpanzees as they would any other application proposing the use of vertebrate animals. for additional information on review of the vertebrate animals section, please refer to the worksheet for review of the vertebrate animal section.biohazardsreviewers will assess whether materials or procedures proposed are potentially hazardous to research personnel and/or the environment, and if needed, determine whether adequate protection is proposed.resubmissionsfor resubmissions, the committee will evaluate the application as now presented, taking into consideration the responses to comments from the previous scientific review group and changes made to the project.renewalsfor renewals, the committee will consider the progress made in the last funding period.revisionsfor revisions, the committee will consider the appropriateness of the proposed expansion of the scope of the project. if the revision application relates to a specific line of investigation presented in the original application that was not recommended for approval by the committee, then the committee will consider whether the responses to comments from the previous scientific review group are adequate and whether substantial changes are clearly evident.additional review considerations - projectsas applicable for the project proposed, reviewers will consider each of the following items, but will not give scores for these items, and should not consider them in providing an overall impact score.applications from foreign organizationsnot applicableselect agent researchreviewers will assess the information provided in this section of the application, including 1) the select agent(s) to be used in the proposed research, 2) the registration status of all entities where select agent(s) will be used, 3) the procedures that will be used to monitor possession use and transfer of select agent(s), and 4) plans for appropriate biosafety, biocontainment, and security of the select agent(s).resource sharing plansreviewers will comment on whether the following resource sharing plans, or the rationale for not sharing the following types of resources, are reasonable: 1) data sharing plan, 2) sharing model organisms, and 3) genomic data sharing plan.authentication of key biological and/or chemical resourcesfor projects involving key biological and/or chemical resources, reviewers will comment on the brief plans proposed for identifying and ensuring the validity of those resources.budget and period of supportreviewers will consider whether the budget and the requested period of support are fully justified and reasonable in relation to the proposed research.2. review and selection processapplications will be evaluated for scientific and technical merit by (an) appropriate scientific review group(s) convened by nia, in accordance with nih peer review policy and procedures, using the stated review criteria. assignment to a scientific review group will be shown in the era commons.as part of the scientific peer review, all applications will receive a written critique.applications will be assigned on the basis of established phs referral guidelines to the appropriate nih institute or center. applications will compete for available funds with all other recommended applications. following initial peer review, recommended applications will receive a second level of review by the appropriate national advisory council or board. the following will be considered in making funding decisions:3. anticipated announcement and award datesafter the peer review of the application is completed, the pd/pi will be able to access his or her summary statement (written critique) via the era commons. refer to part 1 for dates for peer review, advisory council review, and earliest start date.information regarding the disposition of applications is available in the nih grants policy statement.1. award noticesif the application is under consideration for funding, nih will request "just-in-time" information from the applicant as described in thenih grants policy statement.a formal notification in the form of a notice of award (noa) will be provided to the applicant organization for successful applications. the noa signed by the grants management officer is the authorizing document and will be sent via email to the recipient's business official.recipients must comply with any funding restrictions described in section iv.6. funding restrictions. selection of an application for award is not an authorization to begin performance. any costs incurred before receipt of the noa are at the recipient's risk. these costs may be reimbursed only to the extent considered allowable pre-award costs.any application awarded in response to this foa will be subject to terms and conditions found on the award conditions and information for nih grants website. this includes any recent legislation and policy applicable to awards that is highlighted on this website.individual awards are based on the application submitted to, and as approved by, the nih and are subject to the ic-specific terms and conditions identified in the noa.clinicaltrials.gov: if an award provides for one or more clinical trials. by law (title viii, section 801 of public law 110-85), the "responsible party" must register and submit results information for certain “applicable clinical trials” on the clinicaltrials.gov protocol registration and results system information website (https://register.clinicaltrials.gov). nih expects registration and results reporting of all trials whether required under the law or not. for more information, see https://grants.nih.gov/policy/clinical-trials/reporting/index.htminstitutional review board or independent ethics committee approval: grantee institutions must ensure that all protocols are reviewed by their irb or iec. to help ensure the safety of participants enrolled in nih-funded studies, the recipient must provide nih copies of documents related to all major changes in the status of ongoing protocols.data and safety monitoring requirements: the nih policy for data and safety monitoring requires oversight and monitoring of all nih-conducted or -supported human biomedical and behavioral intervention studies (clinical trials) to ensure the safety of participants and the validity and integrity of the data. further information concerning these requirements is found at http://grants.nih.gov/grants/policy/hs/data_safety.htm and in the application instructions (sf424 (r&r) and phs 398).investigational new drug or investigational device exemption requirements: consistent with federal regulations, clinical research projects involving the use of investigational therapeutics, vaccines, or other medical interventions (including licensed products and devices for a purpose other than that for which they were licensed) in humans under a research protocol must be performed under a food and drug administration (fda) investigational new drug (ind) or investigational device exemption (ide).all nih grant and cooperative agreement awards include the nih grants policy statement as part of the noa. for these terms of award, see the nih grants policy statement part ii: terms and conditions of nih grant awards, subpart a: generaland part ii: terms and conditions of nih grant awards, subpart b: terms and conditions for specific types of grants, recipients, and activities, including of note, but not limited to:if a recipient is successful and receives a notice of award, in accepting the award, the recipient agrees that any activities under the award are subject to all provisions currently in effect or implemented during the period of the award, other department regulations and policies in effect at the time of the award, and applicable statutory provisions.should the applicant organization successfully compete for an award, recipients of federal financial assistance (ffa) from hhs must administer their programs in compliance with federal civil rights laws that prohibit discrimination on the basis of race, color, national origin, disability, age and, in some circumstances, religion, conscience, and sex (including gender identity, sexual orientation, and pregnancy). this includes ensuring programs are accessible to persons with limited english proficiency and persons with disabilities. the hhs office for civil rights provides guidance on complying with civil rights laws enforced by hhs. please see https://www.hhs.gov/civil-rights/for-providers/provider-obligations/index.html https://www.hhs.gov/civil-rights/for-individuals/nondiscrimination/index.html.hhs recognizes that research projects are often limited in scope for many reasons that are nondiscriminatory, such as the principal investigator’s scientific interest, funding limitations, recruitment requirements, and other considerations. thus, criteria in research protocols that target or exclude certain populations are warranted where nondiscriminatory justifications establish that such criteria are appropriate with respect to the health or safety of the subjects, the scientific study design, or the purpose of the research. for additional guidance regarding how the provisions apply to nih grant programs, please contact the scientific/research contact that is identified in section vii under agency contacts of this foa.recipients of ffa must ensure that their programs are accessible to persons with limited english proficiency. for guidance on meeting the legal obligation to take reasonable steps to ensure meaningful access to programs or activities by limited english proficient individuals see https://www.hhs.gov/civil-rights/for-individuals/special-topics/limited-english-proficiency/fact-sheet-guidance/index.html and https://www.lep.gov.please contact the hhs office for civil rights for more information about obligations and prohibitions under federal civil rights laws at https://www.hhs.gov/ocr/about-us/contact-us/index.html or call 1-800-368-1019 or tdd 1-800-537-7697.in accordance with the statutory provisions contained in section 872 of the duncan hunter national defense authorization act of fiscal year 2009 (public law 110-417), nih awards will be subject to the federal awardee performance and integrity information system (fapiis) requirements. fapiis requires federal award making officials to review and consider information about an applicant in the designated integrity and performance system (currently fapiis) prior to making an award. an applicant, at its option, may review information in the designated integrity and performance systems accessible through fapiis and comment on any information about itself that a federal agency previously entered and is currently in fapiis. the federal awarding agency will consider any comments by the applicant, in addition to other information in fapiis, in making a judgement about the applicant’s integrity, business ethics, and record of performance under federal awards when completing the review of risk posed by applicants as described in 45 cfr part 75.205 and 2 cfr part 200.206 “federal awarding agency review of risk posed by applicants.” this provision will apply to all nih grants and cooperative agreements except fellowships.not applicabledata management and sharingnote: the nih policy for data management and sharing is effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023.consistent with the nih policy for data management and sharing, when data management and sharing is applicable to the award, recipients will be required to adhere to the data management and sharing requirements as outlined in the nih grants policy statement. upon the approval of a data management and sharing plan, it is required for recipients to implement the plan as described.when multiple years are involved, recipients will be required to submit the research performance progress report (rppr) annually and financial statements as required in the nih grants policy statement.a final rppr, invention statement, and the expenditure data portion of the federal financial report are required for closeout of an award, as described in the nih grants policy statement. nih foas outline intended research goals and objectives. post award, nih will review and measure performance based on the details and outcomes that are shared within the rppr, as described at 45 cfr part 75.301 and 2 cfr part 200.301.the federal funding accountability and transparency act of 2006 (transparency act), includes a requirement for recipients of federal grants to report information about first-tier subawards and executive compensation under federal assistance awards issued in fy2011 or later. all recipients of applicable nih grants and cooperative agreements are required to report to the federal subaward reporting system (fsrs) available at www.fsrs.gov on all subawards over the threshold. see the nih grants policy statement for additional information on this reporting requirement.in accordance with the regulatory requirements provided at 45 cfr 75.113and 2 cfr part 200.113 and appendix xii to 45 cfr part 75 and 2 cfr part 200, recipients that have currently active federal grants, cooperative agreements, and procurement contracts from all federal awarding agencies with a cumulative total value greater than $10,000,000 for any period of time during the period of performance of a federal award, must report and maintain the currency of information reported in the system for award management (sam)about civil, criminal, and administrative proceedings in connection with the award or performance of a federal award that reached final disposition within the most recent five-year period. the recipient must also make semiannual disclosures regarding such proceedings. proceedings information will be made publicly available in the designated integrity and performance system (currently fapiis). this is a statutory requirement under section 872 of public law 110-417, as amended (41 u.s.c. 2313). as required by section 3010 of public law 111-212, all information posted in the designated integrity and performance system on or after april 15, 2011, except past performance reviews required for federal procurement contracts, will be publicly available. full reporting requirements and procedures are found in appendix xii to 45 cfr part 75and 2 cfr part 200 – award term and condition for recipient integrity and performance matters.we encourage inquiries concerning this funding opportunity and welcome the opportunity to answer questions from potential applicants.era service desk (questions regarding assist, era commons, application errors and warnings, documenting system problems that threaten submission by the due date, and post-submission issues)finding help online: http://grants.nih.gov/support/&nbsnbsp(preferred method of contact) telephone: 301-402-7469 or 866-504-9552 (toll free)general grants information (questions regarding application instructions, application processes, and nih grant resources) email: grantsinfo@nih.gov (preferred method of contact) telephone: 301-637-3015grants.gov customer support (questions regarding grants.gov registration and workspace) contact center telephone: 800-518-4726 email: support@grants.govsanoj k. suneja, ph.d. national institute on aging (nia) telephone: 301-402-7710 email: sanoj.suneja@nih.govramesh vemuri, ph.d. national institute on aging (nia) telephone: 301-496-9666 email: ramesh.vemuri@nih.govmr. e.c. melvin national institute on aging (nia) telephone: 301-480-8991 email: ec.melvin@nih.govrecently issued trans-nih policy notices may affect your application submission. a full list of policy notices published by nih is provided in the nih guide for grants and contracts. all awards are subject to the terms and conditions, cost principles, and other considerations described in the nih grants policy statement.awards are made under the authorization of sections 301 and 405 of the public health service act as amended (42 usc 241 and 284) and under federal regulations 42 cfr part 52 and 45 cfr part 75 and 2 cfr part 200.weekly toc for this announcement nih funding opportunities and noticesnote: for help accessing pdf, rtf, ms word, excel, powerpoint, audio or video files, see help downloading files.