Summer Research Education Experience Program (R25 Clinical Trial Not Allowed)
https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/pa-files/PAR-21-168.html
national institutes of health (nih)national institute of neurological disorders and stroke (ninds) national institute on alcohol abuse and alcoholism (niaaa) national institute of biomedical imaging and bioengineering (nibib) national institute of dental and craniofacial research ( nidcr ) national institute on drug abuse (nida) national institute of environmental health sciences (niehs)national institute on alcohol abuse and alcoholism (niaaa)national institute of biomedical imaging and bioengineering (nibib)national institute of dental and craniofacial research ( nidcr )national institute on drug abuse (nida)national institute of environmental health sciences (niehs)r25 education projectsreissue of par-19-197 - summer research education experience program (r25 clinical trial not allowed)see notices of special interest associated with this funding opportunitynonesee section iii. 3. additional information on eligibility.93.113, 93.286, 93.273, 93.279, 93.853the nih research education program (r25) supports research education activities in the mission areas of the nih. the overarching goal of this r25 program is to support educational activities that complement and/or enhance the training of a workforce to meet the nation’s biomedical, behavioral and clinical research needs.to accomplish the stated over-arching goal, this foa will support creative educational activities with a primary focus on:to accomplish the stated over-arching goal, this foa will support creative educational activities with a primary focus on:for high school students, undergraduate students, and/or science teachers during the summer academic break.30 days prior to application due datemarch 17, 2022, march 17, 2023, and march 19, 2024all applications are due by 5:00 pm local time of applicant organization. all types of non-aids applications allowed for this funding opportunity announcement are due on the listed date(s). applicants are encouraged to apply early to allow adequate time to make any corrections to errors found in the application during the submission process by the due date.all applications are due by 5:00 pm local time of applicant organization. all types of non-aids applications allowed for this funding opportunity announcement are due on the listed date(s).applicants are encouraged to apply early to allow adequate time to make any corrections to errors found in the application during the submission process by the due date.may 9, 2022, may 8, 2023, and may 7, 2024all applications are due by 5:00 pm local time of applicant organization. all types of aids and aids-related applications allowed for this funding opportunity announcement are due on the listed date(s).applicants are encouraged to apply early to allow adequate time to make any corrections to errors found in the application during the submission process by the due date.july 2022, july 2023, and july 2024october 2022, october 2023, and october 2024december 2022, december 2023, and december 2024not applicableit is critical that applicants follow the instructions in the research (r) instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, except where instructed to do otherwise (in this foa or in a notice from nih guide for grants and contracts).conformance to all requirements (both in the application guide and the foa) is required and strictly enforced. applicants must read and follow all application instructions in the application guide as well as any program-specific instructions noted in section iv. when the program-specific instructions deviate from those in the application guide, follow the program-specific instructions.applications that do not comply with these instructions may be delayed or not accepted for review.there are several options available to submit your application through grants.gov to nih and department of health and human services partners. you must use one of these submission options to access the application forms for this opportunity.the nih research education program (r25) supports research educational activities that complement other formal training programs in the mission areas of the nih institutes and centers. the overarching goals of the nih r25 program are to: (1) complement and/or enhance the training of a workforce to meet the nation’s biomedical, behavioral and clinical research needs; (2) encourage individuals from diverse backgrounds, including those from groups underrepresented in the biomedical and behavioral sciences, to pursue further studies or careers in research; (3) help recruit individuals with specific specialty or disciplinary backgrounds to research careers in biomedical, behavioral and clinical sciences; and (4) foster a better understanding of biomedical, behavioral and clinical research and its implications.the overarching goal of this r25 program is to support educational activities that complement and/or enhance the training of a workforce to meet the nation’s biomedical, behavioral and clinical research needs.to accomplish the stated over-arching goal, this foa will support creative educational activities with a primary focus on:research experiences: for high school students, undergraduate students, and/or science teachers during the summer academic break. proposed programs should provide authentic "open-ended", hands-on exposure to research in a laboratory or a field setting as part of a comprehensive program based in sound educational practices designed to stimulate the interest and advance the knowledge base of participants. in addition to hands-on research experiences, programs are expected to include complementary activities that support the participants' scientific development, such as scientific writing and presentation skills and training in rigor and reproducibility. programs should consider the needs of the intended participants and the likelihood of improving their knowledge and/or skills when designing the research program. programs should have clear goals and objectives appropriate for the educational level of the audience to be reached (high school and/or undergraduate students or science teachers), including the content to be conveyed, and the intended outcome(s). outcomes for high school and college students may include: to reinforce their intent to graduate with a science degree, prepare them for graduate or medical school admissions, and/or prepare them for careers in research.. support for science teachers will be limited to those programs with a clear plan for how teachers will utilize their summer experience in their teaching during the school year, such as enhancing the stem curriculum or increasing number of stem courses taught.r25 programs that propose at least 8 weeks, but fewer than 15 weeks, of full-time research experiences during the summer may request continued part-time support for the participants to work on their research projects during the school year, up to the equivalent of a total of 15 weeks of full-time participation, as long as the entire research experience is completed within a 12-month period.applications that demonstrate the potential to impact students and teachers from diverse backgrounds are particularly encouraged. all programs are expected to promote inclusive research environments (i.e., institutional and departmental environments in which trainees from all backgrounds feel integrated into and supported by the biomedical community.the proposed program needs to align with the mission of the ic to which the application is submitted and not have a general stem focus. ics will not support projects, regardless of the results of merit review, if they do not fulfill current programmatic priorities. therefore, it is strongly recommended that potential applicants consult scientific/research staff at the intended ic listed in section vii before preparing an application. for the specific ics, the following represents mission focus areas (more information can be found in the table of ic-specific information and contacts page):research education programs may complement ongoing research training and education occurring at the applicant institution, but the proposed educational experiences must be distinct from those training and education programs currently receiving federal support. r25 programs may augment institutional research training programs (e.g., t32, t90) but cannot be used to replace or circumvent ruth l. kirschstein national research service award (nrsa) programs.see section viii. other information for award authorities and regulations.grant: a support mechanism providing money, property, or both to an eligible entity to carry out an approved project or activity.the oer glossary and the sf424 (r&r) application guide provide details on these application types. only those application types listed here are allowed for this foa.not allowed: only accepting applications that do not propose clinical trial(s).note: appointed participants are permitted to obtain research experience in a clinical trial led by a mentor or co-mentor.note: appointed participants are permitted to obtain research experience in a clinical trial led by a mentor or co-mentor.need help determining whether you are doing a clinical trial?need help determining whether you are doing a clinical trial?the number of awards is contingent upon nih appropriations and the submission of a sufficient number of meritorious applicationsalthough the size of award may vary with the scope of the summer research program proposed, budgets cannot exceed $125,000 direct costs per year.a project period of up to five years may be requested. funds may be requested for a minimum of 8 weeks and a maximum of 15 weeks of research education experience each year.individuals designing, directing, and implementing the research education program may request salary and fringe benefits appropriate for the person months devoted to the program. salaries requested may not exceed the levels commensurate with the institution's policy for similar positions and may not exceed the congressionally mandated cap. (if mentoring interactions and other activities with participants are considered a regular part of an individual's academic duties, then any costs associated with the mentoring and other interactions with participants are not allowable costs from grant funds).allowable costs: up to $50,000 combined salary, administrative, clerical or other staff with responsibilities directly associated with designing, directing and administering the research experience program can be requested. this may include the pd(s)/pi(s) and/or program manager/coordinator, as appropriate to the proposed program . items that may not be supported with r25 funds include: salaries and support for the program faculty mentors; salary and support for central institutional administrative personnel (e.g., budget officers, grant assistants, and building maintenance personnel), which are usually paid from institutional overhead charges; salary and support for administrative activities such as institutional public relations or health and educational services.allowable costs:up to $50,000 combined salary, administrative, clerical or other staff with responsibilities directly associated with designing, directing and administering the research experience program can be requested. this may include the pd(s)/pi(s) and/or program manager/coordinator, as appropriate to the proposed program .items that may not be supported with r25 funds include:'participants' are the students and teachers who benefit from the proposed summer research program. allowable participant costs depend on the educational level/career status of the individuals to be selected to participate in the program, and the duration of the summer experience. participant costs must be itemized in the proposed budget.salary - for high school and undergraduate students, nih will provide salary and fringe benefits consistent with institutional salary policies. institutional salary rates which exceed the hourly minimum wage must be justified. participants may only receive funding for the period they participate in the program. for science teachers, nih will provide salary and fringe benefits up to $21,000 per science teacher reflecting a full-time, 40 hr/wk experience for the maximum 15 week summer research experience. for programs shorter than 15 weeks, the amounts will be prorated accordingly. participants supported by other nih training mechanisms (e.g., t awards) or other r25 education programs are encouraged to participate in summer r25 programs but may not receive additional salary or salary supplementation.housing - support may be requested to defray the cost of housing at the program site. contributions to, or coverage of housing by the institution should be addressed in the institutional environment and commitment section of the application.registration fees or tuition - participants may receive funds to defray registration fees, tuition, or other education-related expenses if required for the educational experiences offered by the program and if adequately justified.travel - funds may not be expended to cover the costs of travel between the place of residence and the training institution except in cases of disability or extreme hardship. in those cases, support may be requested to defray the cost of travel to and from the program site at the discretion of the sponsoring institution. because the r25 program is not intended as a substitute for an nrsa institutional training program (e.g.,t32), costs to support full-time participants (supported for 40 hours/week for a continuous, 12-month period) are not allowable.consultant costs, equipment, supplies, travel for key persons, and other program-related expenses may be included in the proposed budget. these expenses must be justified as specifically required by the proposed program and must not duplicate items generally available at the applicant institution.up to $1,200 per participant may be requested for program-related expenses and travel to relevant scientific meetings that occur during the participant's period of appointment. .up to $1,200 per participant may be requested for program-related expenses and travel to relevant scientific meetings that occur during the participant's period of appointment. .indirect costs (also known as facilities & administrative [f&a] costs) are reimbursed at 8% of modified total direct costs (exclusive of tuition and fees, expenditures for equipment and consortium costs in excess of $25,000), rather than on the basis of a negotiated rate agreement.nih grants policies as described in the nih grants policy statement will apply to the applications submitted and awards made from this foa.higher education institutionsthe following types of higher education institutions are always encouraged to apply for nih support as public or private institutions of higher education:nonprofits other than institutions of higher educationfor-profit organizationsgovernmentsotherthe sponsoring institution must assure support for the proposed program. appropriate institutional commitment to the program includes the provision of adequate staff, facilities, and educational resources that can contribute to the planned program.institutions with existing ruth l. kirschstein national research service award (nrsa) institutional training grants (e.g., t32) or other federally funded training programs may apply for a research education grant provided that the proposed educational experiences are distinct from those training programs receiving federal support. in many cases, it is anticipated that the proposed research education program will complement ongoing research training occurring at the applicant institution.non-domestic (non-u.s.) entities (foreign institutions) are not eligible to applynon-domestic (non-u.s.) components of u.s. organizations are not eligible to apply.foreign components, as defined in the nih grants policy statement, are not allowed.applicant organizationsapplicant organizations must complete and maintain the following registrations as described in the sf 424 (r&r) application guide to be eligible to apply for or receive an award. all registrations must be completed prior to the application being submitted. registration can take 6 weeks or more, so applicants should begin the registration process as soon as possible. the nih policy on late submission of grant applications states that failure to complete registrations in advance of a due date is not a valid reason for a late submission.program directors/principal investigators (pd(s)/pi(s))all pd(s)/pi(s) must have an era commons account. pd(s)/pi(s) should work with their organizational officials to either create a new account or to affiliate their existing account with the applicant organization in era commons. if the pd/pi is also the organizational signing official, they must have two distinct era commons accounts, one for each role. obtaining an era commons account can take up to 2 weeks.any individual(s) with the skills, knowledge, and resources necessary to carry out the proposed research as the program director(s)/principal investigator(s) (pd(s)/pi(s)) is invited to work with his/her organization to develop an application for support. individuals from diverse backgrounds, including underrepresented racial and ethnic groups, individuals with disabilities, and women are always encouraged to apply for nih support.for institutions/organizations proposing multiple pds/pis, visit the multiple program director/principal investigator policy and submission details in the senior/key person profile (expanded) component of the sf424 (r&r) application guide.the pd/pi should be an established investigator in the scientific area in which the application is targeted and capable of providing both administrative and scientific leadership to the development and implementation of the proposed program. the pd/pi will be expected to monitor and assess the program and submit all documents and reports as required.this foa does not require cost sharing as defined in the nih grants policy statement.number of applicationsapplicant organizations may submit more than one application, provided that each application is scientifically distinct.the nih will not accept duplicate or highly overlapping applications under review at the same time. this means that the nih will not accept:ninds will support a maximum of two awards per institution (identified by a unique duns number) at any time: one focused on students and one focused on science teachers, except with strong justification. it is strongly recommended that potential applicants consult the scientific/research staff at ninds listed in section vii before submitting a second application from the same institution.nibib will support a maximum of one award per institution.program facultyresearchers from diverse backgrounds, including racial and ethnic minorities, persons with disabilities, and women are encouraged to participate as preceptors/mentors. mentors should have research expertise and experience relevant to the proposed program. mentors must be committed to continue their involvement throughout the total period of the mentee’s participation in this award.participantsin order to receive salary support, participants must be a high school student, an undergraduate student, or a science teacher. unless strongly justified on the basis of exceptional relevance to nih, research education programs should be used primarily for the education of u.s. citizens and permanent residents. participants must be appointed for a minimum of 8 weeks and a maximum of 15 weeks of research experience per year.the application forms package specific to this opportunity must be accessed through assist, grants.gov workspace or an institutional system-to-system solution. links to apply using assist or grants.gov workspace are available in part 1 of this foa. see your administrative office for instructions if you plan to use an institutional system-to-system solution.it is critical that applicants follow the instructions in the research (r) instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide except where instructed in this funding opportunity announcement to do otherwise. conformance to the requirements in the application guide is required and strictly enforced. applications that are out of compliance with these instructions will not be reviewed.letter of intentalthough a letter of intent is not required, is not binding, and does not enter into the review of a subsequent application, the information that it contains allows ic staff to estimate the potential review workload and plan the review.by the date listed in part 1. overview information, prospective applicants are asked to submit a letter of intent that includes the following information:the letter of intent should be sent to:lauren ullrich, ph.d. national institute of neurological disorders and stroke (ninds) telephone: 301-451-7964 email: lauren.ullrich@nih.govnote: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023 a data management and sharing plan is not applicable for this foa.the following section supplements the instructions found in the sf424 (r&r) application guide and should be used for preparing an application to this foa.follow all instructions provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.follow all instructions provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.follow all instructions provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide with the following additional modifications:facilities & other resources. describe the educational environment, including the facilities, laboratories, participating departments, computer services, and any other resources to be used in the development and implementation of the proposed program. list all thematically related sources of support for research training and education following the format for current and pending support.other attachments.an advisory committee is not a required component of a research education program, but it is recommended. if an advisory committee is intended, provide a plan for the appointment of an advisory committee to monitor progress of the research education program. the composition, roles, responsibilities, and desired expertise of committee members, frequency of committee meetings, and other relevant information should be included. describe how the advisory committee will evaluate the overall effectiveness of the program. proposed advisory committee members should be named in the application if they have been invited to participate at the time the application is submitted. renewal applications with advisory committees should include the names of all committee members during the past project period. please name your file “advisory_committee.pdf”.enhancing educational inclusivity statement: programs are expected to implement robust plans to enhance diversity and to promote inclusive, safe, and supportive research environments, including:programs should include a description of how the effectiveness and impact of these activities will be monitored and evaluated. centralized institutional efforts alone will not satisfy the requirement to create an inclusive environment and implement robust and successful mechanisms to retain all participants (e.g., participating faculty are expected to be actively involved in retention efforts). please name the file “eei_plan.pdf”. if this attachment is not included, the application will be considered incomplete and will not be reviewed.the filename provided for each “other attachment” will be the name used for the bookmark in the electronic application in era commons.follow all instructions provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.follow all instructions provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide with the following additional modifications:follow all instructions provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed, with the following additional instructions:research strategyresearch strategy section must be used to upload the research education program plan, which must include the following components described below:research education program planproposed research education program. while the proposed research education program may complement ongoing research training and education occurring at the applicant institution, the proposed educational experiences must be distinct from those research training and research education programs currently receiving federal support. when research training programs are on-going in the same department, the applicant organization should clearly distinguish between the activities in the proposed research education program and the research training supported by the training program.clearly state the goals and objectives of the proposed research experiences program and how they address the mission of one of the participating nih institutes (see part 2, section i). provide the underlying rationale and evidence supporting the need for the program. describe the importance of the research experiences in meeting the specific needs of the intended participants and the likelihood of improving their knowledge and/or skills. describe innovative aspects and explain the significance of the research experiences program. describe the educational concepts and principles on which the program is based and the overall strategy, methodology, and analyses to be employed. describe training in rigor and reproducibility (e.g., best practices for keeping a lab notebook, experimental design, data hygiene, and appropriate statistical analysis). describe activities that support the participants' scientific development, such as scientific writing and presentation skills. provide support for the feasibility of the proposed activities and how they relate to the strengths of the institution and describe the benchmarks to be used to assess the success of the research experiences program. consider potential problems that may be encountered and describe alternative strategies that could be employed.for renewals, highlight positive program outcomes and describe the need for continued support in advancing the mission of one of the participating nih institute. state the original specific measurable objectives, anticipated legally actionable milestones, and outcomes. describe the progress made in the last funding period and the success of the research experiences program in attracting and retaining individuals from diverse populations, including populations underrepresented in biomedical, behavioral and clinical research on a national basis. include a description of what has been learned through program assessment and how the proposed program content and/or methodologies have been revised since the previous application, and why.program director/principal investigator. describe arrangements for administration of the program. provide evidence that the program director/principal investigator is actively engaged in research and/or teaching in an area related to the mission of nih, and can organize, administer, monitor, and evaluate the research education program. for programs proposing multiple pds/pis, describe the complementary and integrated expertise of the pds/pis, their leadership approach, and governance appropriate for the planned project.provide evidence that an appropriate level of effort will be devoted by the program leadership to ensure the program's intended goal is accomplished.program faculty. researchers from diverse backgrounds, including racial and ethnic minorities, persons with disabilities, and women are encouraged to participate as program faculty. faculty should have research expertise and experience relevant to the proposed program and demonstrate a history of, or the potential for, their intended roles. describe the research expertise of the program faculty and provide examples of research projects students could conduct in their lab. biosketches for participating mentors are allowable, but not required. describe the experience of the participating faculty in mentoring students and teaching science, as well as their ability to serve as good role models for the participants by virtue of their own scientific accomplishments.it is important that participants have exposure and access to appropriate role models, for example, women, individuals from different backgrounds and with different perspectives, senior faculty and junior faculty. programs should describe efforts to achieve diverse representation in program leadership, participating faculty and mentors.program participants. applications must describe the intended participants, and the eligibility criteria and/or specific educational background characteristics that are essential for participation in the proposed research education program. identify the career levels for which the proposed program is planned.provide details about the pool of expected participants in the research experiences program and the sources of the applicant pool. describe how participants will be selected from the eligible applicant pool. explain how the planned recruitment is intended to generate a pool of applicants that represents the program’s intended audience.for renewals, provide information on the applicants and participants in the last funding period. summarize participant outcomes, for example: demographics of applicant pool, number of participants who matriculated into and completed the program, participants' current academic status, degree pursued and institution (high school and undergraduate students) or job information (name, place of work, grade and subject(s) taught, for teachers); information on research products (number of presentations, peer-reviewed publications including program-supported participants as co-authors, etc.); and for teachers: number of stem courses taught, in what ways courses have enhanced stem curriculum. include a description of how the recruitment and/or selection of participants have been revised since the previous application, and why.institutional environment and commitment. describe any additional aspects of the institutional environment and commitment not addressed under “facilities & other resources” or the required “institutional commitment letter of support,” described below. appropriate institutional commitment should include the provision of adequate staff, facilities, and educational resources that can contribute to the planned research education program. this section should not duplicate information provided elsewhere.where appropriate, describe any unique features of the scientific environment, subject populations, or collaborative arrangements that may be leveraged to the advantage of the proposed research experiences program.if multiple sites are participating, describe how this will enhance the quality of the research experiences provided, as well as how activities will be coordinated and effective communication maintained among the multiple sites.recruitment plan to enhance diversity (not-od-20-031):the applicant must provide a recruitment plan to enhance diversity. include outreach strategies and activities designed to recruit prospective participants from diverse backgrounds, e.g., those from groups described in the notice of nih's interest in diversity. describe the specific efforts to be undertaken by the program and how the proposed plan reflects past experiences in recruiting individuals from underrepresented groups.renewal applications must include a detailed account of experiences in recruiting individuals from underrepresented groups during the previous funding period, including successful and unsuccessful recruitment strategies.applications lacking a diversity recruitment plan will not be reviewed.plan for instruction in the responsible conduct of research. all applications must include a plan to fulfill nih requirements for instruction in the responsible conduct of research (rcr). the plan must address the five, required instructional components outlined in the nih policy: 1) format - the required format of instruction, i.e., face-to-face lectures, coursework, and/or real-time discussion groups (a plan with only on-line instruction is not acceptable); 2) subject matter - the breadth of subject matter, e.g., conflict of interest, authorship, data management, human subjects and animal use, laboratory safety, research misconduct, research ethics; 3) faculty participation - the role of the program faculty in the instruction; 4) duration of instruction - the number of contact hours of instruction, taking into consideration the duration of the program; and 5) frequency of instruction – instruction must occur during each career stage and at least once every four years. see also not-od-10-019. the plan should be appropriate and reasonable for the nature and duration of the proposed program. renewal (type 2) applications must, in addition, describe any changes in formal instruction over the past project period and plans to address any weaknesses in the current instruction plan. all participating faculty who served as course directors, speakers, lecturers, and/or discussion leaders during the past project period must be named in the application.applications lacking a plan for instruction in responsible conduct of research will not be reviewed.evaluation plan. applications must include a plan for evaluating the activities supported by the award. the application must specify baseline metrics (e.g., numbers, educational levels, and demographic characteristics of participants), as well as measures to gauge the short or long-term success of the research education award in achieving its objectives. wherever appropriate, applicants are encouraged to obtain feedback from participants to help identify weaknesses and to provide suggestions for improvements.dissemination plan. a specific plan must be provided to disseminate nationally any findings resulting from or materials developed under the auspices of the research education program, e.g., sharing course curricula and related materials via web postings, presentations at scientific meetings, workshops.letters of supporta letter of institutional commitment must be attached as part of letters of support (see section above:”institutional environment and commitment."resource sharing plansindividuals are required to comply with the instructions for the resource sharing plans as provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.when relevant, applications are expected to include a software dissemination plan if support for development, maintenance, or enhancement of software is requested in the application.there is no prescribed single license for software produced. however, the software dissemination plan should address, as appropriate, the following goals:appendixonly limited appendix materials are allowed. follow the instructions for the appendix as described in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.phs human subjects and clinical trials informationwhen involving human subjects research, clinical research, and/or nih-defined clinical trials (and when applicable, clinical trials research experience) follow all instructions for the phs human subjects and clinical trials information form in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, with the following additional instructions:if you answered “yes” to the question “are human subjects involved?” on the r&r other project information form, you must include at least one human subjects study record using the study record: phs human subjects and clinical trials information form or delayed onset study record.study record: phs human subjects and clinical trials informationall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.note: delayed onset does not apply to a study that can be described but will not start immediately (i.e., delayed start). all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.see part 1. section iii.1 for information regarding the requirement for obtaining a unique entity identifier and for completing and maintaining active registrations in system for award management (sam), nato commercial and government entity (ncage) code (if applicable), era commons, and grants.gov.part i. overview information contains information about key dates and times. applicants are encouraged to submit applications before the due date to ensure they have time to make any application corrections that might be necessary for successful submission. when a submission date falls on a weekend or federal holiday, the application deadline is automatically extended to the next business day.organizations must submit applications to grants.gov (the online portal to find and apply for grants across all federal agencies). applicants must then complete the submission process by tracking the status of the application in the era commons, nih’s electronic system for grants administration. nih and grants.gov systems check the application against many of the application instructions upon submission. errors must be corrected and a changed/corrected application must be submitted to grants.gov on or before the application due date and time. if a changed/corrected application is submitted after the deadline, the application will be considered late. applications that miss the due date and time are subjected to the nih policy on late application submission.applicants are responsible for viewing their application before the due date in the era commons to ensure accurate and successful submission.information on the submission process and a definition of on-time submission are provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.this initiative is not subject to intergovernmental review.all nih awards are subject to the terms and conditions, cost principles, and other considerations described in the nih grants policy statement .pre-award costs are allowable only as described in the nih grants policy statement.applications must be submitted electronically following the instructions described in the sf424 (r&r) application guide. paper applications will not be accepted.applicants must complete all required registrations before the application due date. section iii. eligibility information contains information about registration.for assistance with your electronic application or for more information on the electronic submission process, visit how to apply – application guide. if you encounter a system issue beyond your control that threatens your ability to complete the submission process on-time, you must follow the dealing with system issues guidance. for assistance with application submission, contact the application submission contacts in section vii.important reminders:all pd(s)/pi(s) must include their era commons id in the credential field of the senior/key person profile component of the sf424(r&r) application package. failure to register in the commons and to include a valid pd/pi commons id in the credential field will prevent the successful submission of an electronic application to nih.the applicant organization must ensure that the duns number it provides on the application is the same number used in the organization’s profile in the era commons and for the system for award management (sam). additional information may be found in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.see more tips for avoiding common errors.upon receipt, applications will be evaluated for completeness and compliance with application instructions by the center for scientific review, nih. applications that are incomplete or non-compliant will not be reviewed.only the review criteria described below will be considered in the review process. applications submitted to the nih in support of the nih mission are evaluated for scientific and technical merit through the nih peer review system.for this particular announcement, note the following: the goal of this r25 program is to support educational activities that complement and/or enhance the training of a workforce to meet the nation’s biomedical, behavioral and clinical research needs; and support a creative educational activity with a primary focus on research experiences for high school and/or undergraduate students, or science teachers during the summer academic break.reviewers will provide an overall impact score to reflect their assessment of the likelihood for the project to strongly advance research education by fulfilling the goal of this r25 education program, in consideration of the following review criteria and additional review criteria, as applicable for the project proposed.reviewers will consider each of the review criteria below in the determination of scientific merit, and give a separate score for each. an application does not need to be strong in all categories to be judged likely to have major scientific impact.significancedoes the proposed program address a key audience and an important aspect or important need in research education? is there convincing evidence in the application that the proposed program will significantly advance the stated goal of the program?investigator(s)is the pd/pi capable of providing both administrative and scientific leadership to the development and implementation of the proposed program? is there evidence that an appropriate level of effort will be devoted by the program leadership to ensure the program's intended goal is accomplished? if applicable, is there evidence that the participating faculty have experience in mentoring students and teaching science? if applicable, are the faculty good role models for the participants by nature of their scientific accomplishments? if the project is collaborative or multi-pd/pi, do the investigators have complementary and integrated expertise; are their leadership approach, governance and organizational structure appropriate for the project?innovationtaking into consideration the nature of the proposed research education program, does the applicant make a strong case for this program effectively reaching an audience in need of the program’s offerings? where appropriate, is the proposed program developing or utilizing innovative approaches and latest best practices to improve the knowledge and/or skills of the intended audience?approachdoes the proposed program clearly state its goals and objectives, including the educational level of the audience to be reached, the content to be conveyed, and the intended outcome? is there evidence that the program is based on a sound rationale, as well as sound educational concepts and principles? is the plan for evaluation sound and likely to provide information on the effectiveness of the program? are the planned recruitment activities likely to generate a pool of applicants that represents the program’s intended audience?are the overall strategy, methodology, and analyses well-reasoned, feasible, and appropriate to accomplish the specific aims of the proposed research experiences program? does the proposed research education program plan provide authentic, meaningful research educational experiences for participants? do the proposed research experiences and other activities meet the needs of the participants and is the program likely to meet its stated goals? is the training in rigor and reproducibility appropriate? is the dissemination plan strong and of high quality? are potential problems, alternative strategies, and benchmarks for success presented?is the evaluation plan appropriate for an education program, e.g., based on surveys completed by participants and/or publicly available information about participants? is the timeline for evaluation adequately described and likely to provide useful data on the quality and effectiveness of the research experiences program? is the process for determining and evaluating outcomes clear?environmentwill the scientific and educational environment of the proposed program contribute to its intended goals? is there a plan to take advantage of this environment to enhance the educational value of the program? is there tangible evidence of institutional commitment? is there evidence that the faculty have sufficient institutional support to create a sound educational environment for the participants? where appropriate, is there evidence of collaboration and buy-in among participating programs, departments, and institutions?are efforts to enhance diversity and promote inclusion through an environment that promotes the success of individuals with a wide variety of backgrounds and perspectives well-described and likely to succeed?as applicable for the project proposed, reviewers will evaluate the following additional items while determining scientific and technical merit, and in providing an overall impact score, but will not give separate scores for these items.enhancing educational inclusivityare the plans to enhance diversity and to promote inclusive, safe, and supportive research environments appropriate to promote the success of individuals with a wide variety of backgrounds and perspectives? is there an adequate, evidence-informed retention plan to ensure the well-being and success of all participants throughout their participation in the program? are the efforts to cultivate an environment free from harassment and intimidation adequate and appropriate? are the proposed legally actionable milestones for evaluating the effectiveness of the strategies adequate and feasible?protections for human subjectsfor research that involves human subjects but does not involve one of the categories of research that are exempt under 45 cfr part 46, the committee will evaluate the justification for involvement of human subjects and the proposed protections from research risk relating to their participation according to the following five review criteria: 1) risk to subjects, 2) adequacy of protection against risks, 3) potential benefits to the subjects and others, 4) importance of the knowledge to be gained, and 5) data and safety monitoring for clinical trials.for research that involves human subjects and meets the criteria for one or more of the categories of research that are exempt under 45 cfr part 46, the committee will evaluate: 1) the justification for the exemption, 2) human subjects involvement and characteristics, and 3) sources of materials. for additional information on review of the human subjects section, please refer to the guidelines for the review of human subjects.inclusion of women, minorities, and individuals across the lifespanwhen the proposed project involves human subjects and/or nih-defined clinical research, the committee will evaluate the proposed plans for the inclusion (or exclusion) of individuals on the basis of sex/gender, race, and ethnicity, as well as the inclusion (or exclusion) of individuals of all ages (including children and older adults) to determine if it is justified in terms of the scientific goals and research strategy proposed. for additional information on review of the inclusion section, please refer to the guidelines for the review of inclusion in clinical research.vertebrate animalsthe committee will evaluate the involvement of live vertebrate animals as part of the scientific assessment according to the following criteria: (1) description of proposed procedures involving animals, including species, strains, ages, sex, and total number to be used; (2) justifications for the use of animals versus alternative models and for the appropriateness of the species proposed; (3) interventions to minimize discomfort, distress, pain and injury; and (4) justification for euthanasia method if not consistent with the avma guidelines for the euthanasia of animals. reviewers will assess the use of chimpanzees as they would any other application proposing the use of vertebrate animals. for additional information on review of the vertebrate animals section, please refer to the worksheet for review of the vertebrate animal section.biohazardsreviewers will assess whether materials or procedures proposed are potentially hazardous to research personnel and/or the environment, and if needed, determine whether adequate protection is proposed.resubmissionsfor resubmissions, the committee will evaluate the application as now presented, taking into consideration the responses to comments from the previous scientific review group and changes made to the project.revisionsnot applicablerenewalsfor renewals, the committee will consider the progress made in the last funding period, including the enhancing education inclusivity plan, and the diversity recruitment plan.note: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023, the data sharing plan and genomic data sharing plan (gds) as part of the resource sharing plan will not be evaluated at time of review, and a data management and sharing plan is not applicable for this foa.as applicable for the project proposed, reviewers will consider each of the following items, but will not give scores for these items, and should not consider them in providing an overall impact score.recruitment plan to enhance diversitypeer reviewers will separately evaluate the recruitment plan to enhance diversity after the overall score has been determined. reviewers will examine the strategies to be used in the recruitment of prospective participants from underrepresented groups. the review panel’s evaluation will be included in the summary statement. plans will be rated as acceptable or unacceptable, and the summary statement will provide the consensus of the review committee. this is separate from the scorable enhancing biomedical workforce criterion. for renewals, the committee will review the description of the success of the program in attracting individuals from diverse populations, including populations underrepresented in biomedical, behavioral and clinical research on a national basis.training in the responsible conduct of researchtaking into account the specific characteristics of the proposed research education program, the level of participant experience, the reviewers will evaluate the adequacy of the proposed rcr training in relation to the following five required components: 1) format - the required format of instruction, i.e., face-to-face lectures, coursework, and/or real-time discussion groups (a plan with only on-line instruction is not acceptable); 2) subject matter - the breadth of subject matter, e.g., conflict of interest, authorship, data management, human subjects and animal use, laboratory safety, research misconduct, research ethics; 3) faculty participation - the role of the program faculty in the instruction; 4) duration of instruction - the number of contact hours of instruction, taking into consideration the duration of the program; and 5) frequency of instruction –instruction must occur during each career stage and at least once every four years. see also: not-od-10-019. the review panel’s evaluation will be included in the summary statement. plans will be rated as acceptable or unacceptable, and the summary statement will provide the consensus of the review committee.applications from foreign organizationsnot applicableselect agent researchgenerally not applicable. reviewers should bring any concerns to the attention of the scientific review officer.resource sharing plansreviewers will comment on whether the following resource sharing plans, or the rationale for not sharing the following types of resources, are reasonable: 1) data sharing plan; 2) sharing model organisms; and 3) genomic data sharing plan.if support for development, maintenance, or enhancement of software is requested in the application, the reviewers will comment on the proposed software dissemination plan.budget and period of supportreviewers will consider whether the budget and the requested period of support are fully justified and reasonable in relation to the proposed research.applications will be evaluated for scientific and technical merit by appropriate scientific review groups convened by the appropriate council in accordance with nih peer review policy and procedures, using the stated review criteria. assignment to a scientific review group will be shown in the era commons.as part of the scientific peer review, all applications will receive a written critiqueapplications will be assigned on the basis of established phs referral guidelines to the appropriate nih institute or center. applications will compete for available funds with all other recommended applications. following initial peer review, recommended applications will receive a second level of review by the appropriate national advisory council or board. the following will be considered in making funding decisions:information regarding the disposition of applications is available in the nih grants policy statement.if the application is under consideration for funding, nih will request "just-in-time" information from the applicant as described in the nih grants policy statement.a formal notification in the form of a notice of award (noa) will be provided to the applicant organization for successful applications. the noa signed by the grants management officer is the authorizing document and will be sent via email to the recipient’s business official.awardees must comply with any funding restrictions described in section iv.6. funding restrictions. selection of an application for award is not an authorization to begin performance. any costs incurred before receipt of the noa are at the recipient's risk. these costs may be reimbursed only to the extent considered allowable pre-award costs.any application awarded in response to this foa will be subject to terms and conditions found on the award conditions and information for nih grants website. this includes any recent legislation and policy applicable to awards that is highlighted on this website.all nih grant and cooperative agreement awards include the nih grants policy statement as part of the noa. for these terms of award, see the nih grants policy statement part ii: terms and conditions of nih grant awards, subpart a: general and part ii: terms and conditions of nih grant awards, subpart b: terms and conditions for specific types of grants, recipients, and activities. more information is provided at award conditions and information for nih grants.recipients of federal financial assistance (ffa) from hhs must administer their programs in compliance with federal civil rights laws that prohibit discrimination on the basis of race, color, national origin, disability, age and, in some circumstances, religion, conscience, and sex. this includes ensuring programs are accessible to persons with limited english proficiency. the hhs office for civil rights provides guidance on complying with civil rights laws enforced by hhs. please see https://www.hhs.gov/civil-rights/for-providers/provider-obligations/index.html and http://www.hhs.gov/ocr/civilrights/understanding/section1557/index.html.hhs recognizes that research projects are often limited in scope for many reasons that are nondiscriminatory, such as the principal investigator’s scientific interest, funding limitations, recruitment requirements, and other considerations. thus, criteria in research protocols that target or exclude certain populations are warranted where nondiscriminatory justifications establish that such criteria are appropriate with respect to the health or safety of the subjects, the scientific study design, or the purpose of the research. for additional guidance regarding how the provisions apply to nih grant programs, please contact the scientific/research contact that is identified in section vii under agency contacts of this foa.please contact the hhs office for civil rights for more information about obligations and prohibitions under federal civil rights laws at https://www.hhs.gov/ocr/about-us/contact-us/index.html or call 1-800-368-1019 or tdd 1-800-537-7697.in accordance with the statutory provisions contained in section 872 of the duncan hunter national defense authorization act of fiscal year 2009 (public law 110-417), nih awards will be subject to the federal awardee performance and integrity information system (fapiis) requirements. fapiis requires federal award making officials to review and consider information about an applicant in the designated integrity and performance system (currently fapiis) prior to making an award. an applicant, at its option, may review information in the designated integrity and performance systems accessible through fapiis and comment on any information about itself that a federal agency previously entered and is currently in fapiis. the federal awarding agency will consider any comments by the applicant, in addition to other information in fapiis, in making a judgement about the applicant’s integrity, business ethics, and record of performance under federal awards when completing the review of risk posed by applicants as described in 45 cfr part 75.205 “federal awarding agency review of risk posed by applicants.” this provision will apply to all nih grants and cooperative agreements except fellowships.when multiple years are involved, awardees will be required to submit the research performance progress report (rppr) annually. continuation support will not be provided until the required forms are submitted and accepted.programs that involve participants should report on education in the responsible conduct of research and complete a trainee diversity report, in accordance with the rppr instruction guide.the progress report should provide information on the development and implementation of the proposed research education program (including education in the responsible conduct of research); modifications to the research education program as originally proposed; details about the applicant pool; updates on the evaluation of the research education program and dissemination activities (if applicable), and a list of any publications and/or other materials arising from the research education program.each year, the progress report must include the appointed (program-supported) participants' current academic status, degree pursued and institution (high school and undergraduate) or job information (name, place of work, grade and subject(s) taught; for teachers); information on research products (number of presentations, peer-reviewed publications including program-supported participants as co-authors, etc.); and outcomes for former program-supported participants:the federal funding accountability and transparency act of 2006 (transparency act), includes a requirement for awardees of federal grants to report information about first-tier subawards and executive compensation under federal assistance awards issued in fy2011 or later. all awardees of applicable nih grants and cooperative agreements are required to report to the federal subaward reporting system (fsrs) available at www.fsrs.gov on all subawards over $25,000. see the nih grants policy statement for additional information on this reporting requirement.failure by the recipient institution to submit required forms in a timely, complete, and accurate manner may result in an expenditure disallowance or a delay in any continuation funding for the award.in accordance with the regulatory requirements provided at 45 cfr 75.113 and appendix xii to 45 cfr part 75, recipients that have currently active federal grants, cooperative agreements, and procurement contracts from all federal awarding agencies with a cumulative total value greater than $10,000,000 for any period of time during the period of performance of a federal award, must report and maintain the currency of information reported in the system for award management (sam) about civil, criminal, and administrative proceedings in connection with the award or performance of a federal award that reached final disposition within the most recent five-year period. the recipient must also make semiannual disclosures regarding such proceedings. proceedings information will be made publicly available in the designated integrity and performance system (currently fapiis). this is a statutory requirement under section 872 of public law 110-417, as amended (41 u.s.c. 2313). as required by section 3010 of public law 111-212, all information posted in the designated integrity and performance system on or after april 15, 2011, except past performance reviews required for federal procurement contracts, will be publicly available. full reporting requirements and procedures are found in appendix xii to 45 cfr part 75 – award term and conditions for recipient integrity and performance matters.other reporting requirementsa final rppr and the expenditure data portion of the federal financial report are required for closeout of an award as described in the nih grants policy statement.in carrying out its stewardship of human resource-related programs, the nih or its institutes and centers will periodically evaluate their r25 research education programs, employing the measures identified below. in assessing the effectiveness of its research education investments, nih may request information from databases, pd/pis, and from participants themselves. where necessary, pd/pis and participants may be contacted after the completion of a research education experience for periodic updates on participants’ subsequent educational or employment history and professional activities.upon the completion of a program evaluation, nih and its ics will determine whether to (a) continue a program as currently configured, (b) continue a program with modifications, or (c) discontinue a program.in evaluating this research education program niaaa, nida, nibib, ninds, and niehs expect to use the following evaluation measures:for research experience and mentoring programs involving the following groups:high school students:undergraduate students:teachers:we encourage inquiries concerning this funding opportunity and welcome the opportunity to answer questions from potential applicants.era service desk (questions regarding assist, era commons, application errors and warnings, documenting system problems that threaten submission by the due date, and post-submission issues)finding help online: http://grants.nih.gov/support/ (preferred method of contact) telephone: 301-402-7469 or 866-504-9552 (toll free)general grants information (questions regarding application instructions, application processes, and nih grant resources) email: grantsinfo@nih.gov (preferred method of contact) telephone: 301-637-3015grants.gov customer support (questions regarding grants.gov registration and workspace) contact center telephone: 800-518-4726 email: support@grants.govsba company registry (questions regarding required registration at the sba company registry and for technical questions or issues) website to email: http://sbir.gov/feedback?type=regreplace this text with staff contact namelaura e. kwako, ph.d. national institute on alcohol abuse ad alcoholism (niaaa) telephone: 301-451-8507 email: laura.kwako@nih.govdave gutekunst, ph.d national institute of biomedical imaging and bioengineering (nibib) phone: 301-402-5069 e-mail: dave.gutekunst@nih.govangela holmes, ph.d. national institute on drug abuse (nida) telephone: (301) 827-2487 email: angela.holmes2@nih.govmichael c. humble, ph.d. national institute of environmental health sciences (niehs) telephone: 984-287-3272 email: humble@niehs.nih.govlauren ullrich, ph.d. national institute of neurological disorders and stroke (ninds) telephone: 301-451-7964 email: lauren.ullrich@nih.govanissa j. brown, phd national institute of dental and craniofacial research (nidcr) telephone: 301-594-4805 email: anissa.brown@nih.govranga srinivas, ph.d. national institute on alcohol abuse and alcoholism (niaaa) telephone: 301-451-2067 email: srinivar@mail.nih.govmanana sukhareva, ph.d. national institute of biomedical imaging and bioengineering (nibib) telephone: 301-451-3397 email: sukharem@mail.nih.govdharmendar rathore, phd national institute on drug abuse (nida) telephone: 301-402-6965 email: rathored@nih.govlinda k. bass, ph.d. national institute of environmental health sciences (niehs) telephone: 984-287-2326 email: bass@niehs.nih.governie lyons, ph.d. national institute of neurological disorders and stroke (ninds) telephone: 301-496-4056 email: el156k@nih.govyasaman shirazi, ph.d. national institute of dental and craniofacial research (nidcr) telephone: 301-594-5593 email: yasaman.shirazi@nih.govjudy fox national institute on alcohol abuse and alcoholism (niaaa) telephone:301-443-4704 email: jfox@mail.nih.govmonique day, ph.d. national institute of biomedical imaging and bioengineering (nibib) telephone: 301-451-4797 e-mail: monique.day@nih.govpamela fleming national institute on drug abuse (nida) telephone: 301-253-8927 email: pfleming@nida.nih.govashley singh national institute of environmental health sciences (niehs) telephone: 984-287-3323 email: ashley.singh@nih.govchief grants management officer national institute of neurological disorders and stroke (ninds) email: chiefgrantsmanagementofficer@ninds.nih.govdiana rutberg, m.b.a. national institute of dental and craniofacial research (nidcr) telephone: 301-594-4798 email: rutbergd@mail.nih.govrecently issued trans-nih policy notices may affect your application submission. a full list of policy notices published by nih is provided in the nih guide for grants and contracts. all awards are subject to the terms and conditions, cost principles, and other considerations described in the nih grants policy statement.awards are made under the authorization of sections 301 and 405 of the public health service act as amended (42 usc 241 and 284) and under federal regulations 42 cfr part 52 and 45 cfr part 75.weekly toc for this announcement nih funding opportunities and noticesnote: for help accessing pdf, rtf, ms word, excel, powerpoint, audio or video files, see help downloading files.