Modules for Enhancing Biomedical Research Workforce Training (R25 Clinical Trial Not Allowed)
https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/pa-files/PAR-20-296.html
national institutes of health (nih)national institute of general medical sciences (nigms)r25 education projectsnew see notices of special interest associated with this funding opportunitynot-od-23-012 reminder: forms-h grant application forms and instructions must be used for due dates on or after january 25, 2023 - new grant application instructions now available not-od-22-190 - adjustments to nih and ahrq grant application due dates between september 22 and september 30, 2022 april 15, 2022 - notice of informational webinar for par-20-296, "modules for enhancing biomedical research workforce training (r25 clinical trial not allowed)". see notice not-gm-22-035october 28, 2021 - reminder: forms-g grant application forms & instructions must be used for due dates on or after january 25, 2022 - new grant application instructions now available. see notice not-od-22-018.september 13, 2021 - updates to the non-discrimination legal requirements for nih recipients. see notice not-od-21-181. august 5, 2021 - new nih "forms-g" grant application forms and instructions coming for due dates on or after january 25, 2022. see notice not-od-21-169.august 5, 2021 - update: notification of upcoming change in federal-wide unique entity identifier requirements. see notice not-od-21-170april 20, 2021 - expanding requirement for era commons ids to all senior/key personnel. see notice not-od-21-109 not-gm-20-047 - notice of special interest (nosi): training modules for creating safe, inclusive, and supportive research environmentsnonesee section iii. 3. additional information on eligibility.93.859the nih research education program (r25) supports research education activities in the mission areas of the nih. the overarching goal of this r25 program is to support educational activities that complement and/or enhance the training of a workforce to meet the nation’s biomedical, behavioral and clinical research needs.to accomplish the stated over-arching goal, this foa will support creative educational activities with a primary focus on:specifically, this foa will support the development of training modules designed to be freely available, at no cost to the broader community to enhance training of the biomedical research workforce. responsive topics will be indicated through notices of special interest (nosis) released annually by nigms.not applicablejune 18, 2021; june 20, 2022; june 19, 2023all applications are due by 5:00 pm local time of applicant organization. all types of non-aids applications allowed for this funding opportunity announcement are due on the listed date(s). applicants are encouraged to apply early to allow adequate time to make any corrections to errors found in the application during the submission process by the due date.all applications are due by 5:00 pm local time of applicant organization. all types of non-aids applications allowed for this funding opportunity announcement are due on the listed date(s).applicants are encouraged to apply early to allow adequate time to make any corrections to errors found in the application during the submission process by the due date.october-november 2021, october-november 2022, october-november 2023january 2022, january 2023, january 2024april 2022, april 2023, april 2024not applicableit is critical that applicants follow the instructions in the research (r) instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide,except where instructed to do otherwise (in this foa or in a notice from nih guide for grants and contracts ).conformance to all requirements (both in the application guide and the foa) is required and strictly enforced. applicants must read and follow all application instructions in the application guide as well as any program-specific instructions noted in section iv. when the program-specific instructions deviate from those in the application guide, follow the program-specific instructions.applications that do not comply with these instructions may be delayed or not accepted for review.there are several options available to submit your application through grants.gov to nih and department of health and human services partners. you must use one of these submission options to access the application forms for this opportunity.the nih research education program (r25) supports research educational activities that complement other formal training programs in the mission areas of the nih institutes and centers. the overarching goals of the nih r25 program are to: (1) complement and/or enhance the training of a workforce to meet the nation’s biomedical, behavioral and clinical research needs; (2) encourage individuals from diverse backgrounds, including those from groups underrepresented in the biomedical and behavioral sciences, to pursue further studies or careers in research; (3) help recruit individuals with specific specialty or disciplinary backgrounds to research careers in biomedical, behavioral and clinical sciences; and (4) foster a better understanding of biomedical, behavioral and clinical research and its implications.the overarching goal of this r25 program is to support educational activities that complement and/or enhance the training of a workforce to meet the nation’s biomedical, behavioral and clinical research needs.to accomplish the stated over-arching goal, this foa will support creative educational activities with a primary focus on:curriculum or methods development to develop novel training modules for dissemination to the broader training community. responsive topics will be indicated through notices of special interest (nosis) released annually by nigms.program considerationsthis foa is intended to encourage and enable the scientific community to create and disseminate training modules that will effectively contribute to the development of the biomedical research workforce. nigms intends to fund the development of these training modules in distinct subject areas that are relevant to the current biomedical research workforce. the areas are described through “notices of special interest” found in the “related notices” section above.the training modules are expected to cover material not typically taught as part of current institutional coursework. however, it is expected that the developed modules could be utilized as learning material in future courses to enhance training environments. materials should address the training needs experienced by the biomedical research workforce. the modules should be targeted to impact individuals from a broad range of scientific disciplines and career stages.program structure for module development and accessibilitythis training may take many different types of formats and approaches, but should be timely, informative, engaging, and easily accessible to everyone at no cost. some general expectations are as follows:research education programs may complement ongoing research training and education occurring at the applicant institution, but the proposed educational experiences must be distinct from those training and education programs currently receiving federal support. r25 programs may augment institutional research training programs (e.g., t32, t90) but cannot be used to replace or circumvent ruth l. kirschstein national research service award (nrsa) programs. applications not responsive to this foa nigms will only accept applications addressing specific topics as defined in a notice of special interest (nosi) released annually. applicants should consult the current nigms nosi listed in the “related notices” section above for responsive topics. applications that do not address the specific topic in the current nosi will be considered non-responsive and will not be reviewed.see section viii. other information for award authorities and regulations.grant: a support mechanism providing money, property, or both to an eligible entity to carry out an approved project or activity.the oer glossary and the sf424 (r&r) application guide provide details on these application types. only those application types listed here are allowed for this foa.not allowed: only accepting applications that do not propose clinical trial(s).need help determining whether you are doing a clinical trial?the number of awards is contingent upon nih appropriations and the submission of a sufficient number of meritorious applications.applications may request up to $250,000 in direct costs to cover the entire award project period but need to reflect the actual needs of the proposed project. budget categories should not include inflationary escalation for recurring costs in outyears.applications may request award project periods of up to three years.individuals designing, directing, and implementing the research education program may request salary and fringe benefits appropriate for the person months devoted to the program. salaries requested may not exceed the levels commensurate with the institution's policy for similar positions and may not exceed the congressionally mandated cap. (if mentoring interactions and other activities with participants are considered a regular part of an individual's academic duties, then any costs associated with the mentoring and other interactions with participants are not allowable costs from grant funds).not applicableconsultant costs, equipment, supplies, travel for key persons, and other program-related expenses may be included in the proposed budget. these expenses must be justified as specifically required by the proposed program and must not duplicate items generally available at the applicant institution.program evaluation costs are limited to a maximum of $3,000 direct costs for the project period. this includes salaries for evaluation consultants, if any.program evaluation costs are limited to a maximum of $3,000 direct costs for the project period. this includes salaries for evaluation consultants, if any.indirect costs (also known as facilities & administrative [f&a] costs) are reimbursed at 8% of modified total direct costs (consortiums in excess of $25,000 exclusive of tuition and fees and expenditures for equipment), rather than on the basis of a negotiated rate agreement.nih grants policies as described in the nih grants policy statement will apply to the applications submitted and awards made from this foa.higher education institutionsthe following types of higher education institutions are always encouraged to apply for nih support as public or private institutions of higher education:nonprofits other than institutions of higher educationfor-profit organizationsgovernments otherthe sponsoring institution must assure support for the proposed program. appropriate institutional commitment to the program includes the provision of adequate staff, facilities, and educational resources that can contribute to the planned program.institutions with existing ruth l. kirschstein national research service award (nrsa) institutional training grants (e.g., t32) or other federally funded training programs may apply for a research education grant provided that the proposed educational experiences are distinct from those training programs receiving federal support. in many cases, it is anticipated that the proposed research education program will complement ongoing research training occurring at the applicant institution.non-domestic (non-u.s.) entities (foreign institutions) are not eligible to applynon-domestic (non-u.s.) components of u.s. organizations are not eligible to apply.foreign components, as defined in the nih grants policy statement, are not allowed.applicant organizationsapplicant organizations must complete and maintain the following registrations as described in the sf 424 (r&r) application guide to be eligible to apply for or receive an award. all registrations must be completed prior to the application being submitted. registration can take 6 weeks or more, so applicants should begin the registration process as soon as possible. the nih policy on late submission of grant applications states that failure to complete registrations in advance of a due date is not a valid reason for a late submission.program directors/principal investigators (pd(s)/pi(s))all pd(s)/pi(s) must have an era commons account. pd(s)/pi(s) should work with their organizational officials to either create a new account or to affiliate their existing account with the applicant organization in era commons. if the pd/pi is also the organizational signing official, they must have two distinct era commons accounts, one for each role. obtaining an era commons account can take up to 2 weeks.any individual(s) with the skills, knowledge, and resources necessary to carry out the proposed research as the program director(s)/principal investigator(s) (pd(s)/pi(s)) is invited to work with his/her organization to develop an application for support. individuals from diverse backgrounds, including underrepresented racial and ethnic groups, individuals with disabilities, and women are always encouraged to apply for nih support.for institutions/organizations proposing multiple pds/pis, visit the multiple program director/principal investigator policy and submission details in the senior/key person profile (expanded) component of the sf424 (r&r) application guide.the pd/pi should be an established investigator in the scientific area in which the application is targeted and capable of providing both administrative and scientific leadership to the development and implementation of the proposed program. the pd/pi will be expected to monitor and assess the program and submit all documents and reports as required.this foa does not require cost sharing as defined in the nih grants policy statement.number of applicationsapplicant organizations may submit more than one application, provided that each application is scientifically distinct.the nih will not accept duplicate or highly overlapping applications under review at the same time. this means that the nih will not accept:. the application forms package specific to this opportunity must be accessed through assist, grants.gov workspace or an institutional system-to-system solution. links to apply using assist or grants.gov workspace are available in part 1 of this foa. see your administrative office for instructions if you plan to use an institutional system-to-system solution.it is critical that applicants follow the instructions in the research (r) instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide except where instructed in this funding opportunity announcement to do otherwise. conformance to the requirements in the application guide is required and strictly enforced. applications that are out of compliance with these instructions will not be reviewed.note: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023 a data management and sharing plan is not applicable for this foa.the following section supplements the instructions found in the sf424 (r&r) application guide and should be used for preparing an application to this foa.follow all instructions provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.follow all instructions provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.follow all instructions provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide with the following additional modifications:facilities & other resources. describe the educational environment, including the facilities, laboratories, participating departments, computer services, and any other resources to be used in the development and implementation of the proposed program. list all thematically related sources of support for research training and education following the format for current and pending support.follow all instructions provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.follow all instructions provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide with the following additional modifications:follow all instructions provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed, with the following additional instructions:research strategyresearch strategy section must be used to upload the research education program plan, which must include the following components described below:proposed research education program. while the proposed research education program may complement ongoing research training and education occurring at the applicant institution, the proposed educational experiences must be distinct from those research training and research education programs currently receiving federal support. when research training programs are on-going in the same department, the applicant organization should clearly distinguish between the activities in the proposed research education program and the research training supported by the training program.applications should describe the following:program director/principal investigator. describe arrangements for administration of the program. provide evidence that the program director/principal investigator is actively engaged in research and/or teaching in an area related to the mission of nih, and can organize, administer, monitor, and evaluate the research education program. for programs proposing multiple pds/pis, describe the complementary and integrated expertise of the pds/pis, their leadership approach, and governance appropriate for the planned project.institutional environment and commitment. appropriate institutional commitment should include the provision of adequate staff, facilities, and educational resources that can contribute to the planned research education program. describe any additional aspects of the institutional environment and commitment not addressed separately under “facilities & other resources” or the “institutional commitment letter of support”. this section should not duplicate information provided elsewhere.evaluation plan. nigms funded research education programs must conduct evaluations to monitor the success of the activities. the application may include evaluation instruments, including blank survey and questionnaire forms, or interview questions in the appendix as instructed in the sf424 (r&r) application guide. the evaluation plan should describe the following:dissemination plan. a specific plan must be provided to ensure a diverse group of individuals benefit from the training module. additionally, the plan should include activities to disseminate nationally any findings resulting from the evaluation of the training module. publication of the program’s activities and outcomes in peer-reviewed journals is highly encouraged. see also the expectations for sharing resources in the instructions for “resource sharing plans” below.letters of supporta letter of institutional commitment must be attached as part of the letters of support. appropriate institutional commitment should include the provision of adequate staff, facilities, and educational resources that can contribute to the planned research education program. applications lacking a letter of institutional commitment will not be reviewed.resource sharing plansindividuals are required to comply with the instructions for the resource sharing plans as provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.when relevant, applications are expected to include a software dissemination plan if support for development, maintenance, or enhancement of software is requested in the application.there is no prescribed single license for software produced. however, the software dissemination plan should address, as appropriate, the following goals:appendixonly limited appendix materials are allowed. follow the instructions for the appendix as described in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.phs human subjects and clinical trials informationwhen involving human subjects research, clinical research, and/or nih-defined clinical trials (and when applicable, clinical trials research experience) follow all instructions for the phs human subjects and clinical trials information form in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, with the following additional instructions:if you answered “yes” to the question “are human subjects involved?” on the r&r other project information form, you must include at least one human subjects study record using the study record: phs human subjects and clinical trials information form or delayed onset study record.study record: phs human subjects and clinical trials informationall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed with the following additional instructions:note: delayed onset does not apply to a study that can be described but will not start immediately (i.e., delayed start). all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.see part 1. section iii.1 for information regarding the requirement for obtaining a unique entity identifier and for completing and maintaining active registrations in system for award management (sam), nato commercial and government entity (ncage) code (if applicable), era commons, and grants.gov.part i. overview information contains information about key dates and times. applicants are encouraged to submit applications before the due date to ensure they have time to make any application corrections that might be necessary for successful submission. when a submission date falls on a weekend or federal holiday, the application deadline is automatically extended to the next business day.organizations must submit applications to grants.gov (the online portal to find and apply for grants across all federal agencies). applicants must then complete the submission process by tracking the status of the application in the era commons, nih’s electronic system for grants administration. nih and grants.gov systems check the application against many of the application instructions upon submission. errors must be corrected and a changed/corrected application must be submitted to grants.gov on or before the application due date and time. if a changed/corrected application is submitted after the deadline, the application will be considered late. applications that miss the due date and time are subjected to the nih policy on late application submission.applicants are responsible for viewing their application before the due date in the era commons to ensure accurate and successful submission.information on the submission process and a definition of on-time submission are provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.this initiative is not subject to intergovernmental review.all nih awards are subject to the terms and conditions, cost principles, and other considerations described in the nih grants policy statement.pre-award costs are allowable only as described in the nih grants policy statement.applications must be submitted electronically following the instructions described in the sf424 (r&r) application guide. paper applications will not be accepted.applicants must complete all required registrations before the application due date. section iii. eligibility information contains information about registration.for assistance with your electronic application or for more information on the electronic submission process, visit how to apply – application guide. if you encounter a system issue beyond your control that threatens your ability to complete the submission process on-time, you must follow the dealing with system issues guidance. for assistance with application submission, contact the application submission contacts in section vii.important reminders:all pd(s)/pi(s) must include their era commons id in the credential field of the senior/key person profile component of the sf424(r&r) application package. failure to register in the commons and to include a valid pd/pi commons id in the credential field will prevent the successful submission of an electronic application to nih.the applicant organization must ensure that the duns number it provides on the application is the same number used in the organization’s profile in the era commons and for the system for award management (sam). additional information may be found in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.see more tips for avoiding common errors.upon receipt, applications will be evaluated for completeness and compliance with application instructions by the center for scientific review and responsiveness by components of participating organizations, nih. applications that are incomplete, non-compliant and/or non-responsive will not be reviewed.applicants are required to follow the instructions for post-submission materials, as described in the policy.only the review criteria described below will be considered in the review process. applications submitted to the nih in support of the nih mission are evaluated for scientific and technical merit through the nih peer review system.for this particular announcement, note the following: the goal of this r25 program is to support the development of exportable training modules designed to enhance training of the biomedical research workforce.reviewers will provide an overall impact score to reflect their assessment of the likelihood for the project to strongly advance research education by fulfilling the goal of this r25 education program, in consideration of the following review criteria and additional review criteria, as applicable for the project proposed.reviewers will consider each of the review criteria below in the determination of scientific merit, and give a separate score for each. an application does not need to be strong in all categories to be judged likely to have major scientific impact.significancedoes the proposed program address a key audience and an important aspect or important need in research education? is there convincing evidence in the application that the proposed program will significantly advance the stated goal of the program?investigator(s)is the pd/pi capable of providing both administrative and scientific leadership to the development and implementation of the proposed program? is there evidence that an appropriate level of effort will be devoted by the program leadership to ensure the program's intended goal is accomplished? if applicable, is there evidence that the participating faculty have experience in mentoring students and teaching science? if applicable, are the faculty good role models for the participants by nature of their scientific accomplishments? if the project is collaborative or multi-pd/pi, do the investigators have complementary and integrated expertise; are their leadership approach, governance and organizational structure appropriate for the project?innovationtaking into consideration the nature of the proposed research education program, does the applicant make a strong case for this program effectively reaching an audience in need of the program’s offerings? where appropriate, is the proposed program developing or utilizing innovative approaches and latest best practices to improve the knowledge and/or skills of the intended audience?approachdoes the proposed program clearly state its goals and objectives, including the educational level of the audience to be reached, the content to be conveyed, and the intended outcome? is there evidence that the program is based on a sound rationale, as well as sound educational concepts and principles? is the plan for evaluation sound and likely to provide information on the effectiveness of the program? if the proposed program will recruit participants, are the planned recruitment, retention, and follow-up (if applicable) activities adequate to ensure a highly qualified participant pool?specific to this foa: is the proposed plan for dissemination of the module sound and likely to provide useful information to the broader scientific community? are the proposed module and digital material in a shareable format that is easily available to the public at no cost?environmentwill the scientific and educational environment of the proposed program contribute to its intended goals? is there a plan to take advantage of this environment to enhance the educational value of the program? is there tangible evidence of institutional commitment? is there evidence that the faculty have sufficient institutional support to create a sound educational environment for the participants? where appropriate, is there evidence of collaboration and buy-in among participating programs, departments, and institutions?as applicable for the project proposed, reviewers will evaluate the following additional items while determining scientific and technical merit, and in providing an overall impact score, but will not give separate scores for these items.protections for human subjectsfor research that involves human subjects but does not involve one of the categories of research that are exempt under 45 cfr part 46, the committee will evaluate the justification for involvement of human subjects and the proposed protections from research risk relating to their participation according to the following five review criteria: 1) risk to subjects, 2) adequacy of protection against risks, 3) potential benefits to the subjects and others, 4) importance of the knowledge to be gained, and 5) data and safety monitoring for clinical trials.for research that involves human subjects and meets the criteria for one or more of the categories of research that are exempt under 45 cfr part 46, the committee will evaluate: 1) the justification for the exemption, 2) human subjects involvement and characteristics, and 3) sources of materials. for additional information on review of the human subjects section, please refer to the guidelines for the review of human subjects.inclusion of women, minorities, and individuals across the lifespanwhen the proposed project involves human subjects and/or nih-defined clinical research, the committee will evaluate the proposed plans for the inclusion (or exclusion) of individuals on the basis of sex/gender, race, and ethnicity, as well as the inclusion (or exclusion) of individuals of all ages (including children and older adults) to determine if it is justified in terms of the scientific goals and research strategy proposed. for additional information on review of the inclusion section, please refer to the guidelines for the review of inclusion in clinical research.vertebrate animalsthe committee will evaluate the involvement of live vertebrate animals as part of the scientific assessment according to the following criteria: (1) description of proposed procedures involving animals, including species, strains, ages, sex, and total number to be used; (2) justifications for the use of animals versus alternative models and for the appropriateness of the species proposed; (3) interventions to minimize discomfort, distress, pain and injury; and (4) justification for euthanasia method if not consistent with the avma guidelines for the euthanasia of animals. reviewers will assess the use of chimpanzees as they would any other application proposing the use of vertebrate animals. for additional information on review of the vertebrate animals section, please refer to the worksheet for review of the vertebrate animal section.biohazardsreviewers will assess whether materials or procedures proposed are potentially hazardous to research personnel and/or the environment, and if needed, determine whether adequate protection is proposed.resubmissionsnot applicablerevisionsnot applicablerenewalsnot applicablenote: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023, the data sharing plan and genomic data sharing plan (gds) as part of the resource sharing plan will not be evaluated at time of review, and a data management and sharing plan is not applicable for this foa.as applicable for the project proposed, reviewers will consider each of the following items, but will not give scores for these items, and should not consider them in providing an overall impact score.not applicabletraining in the responsible conduct of researchnot applicableapplications from foreign organizationsnot applicableselect agent researchgenerally not applicable. reviewers should bring any concerns to the attention of the scientific review officer.resource sharing plansif support for development, maintenance, or enhancement of software is requested in the application, the reviewers will comment on the proposed software dissemination plan.budget and period of supportreviewers will consider whether the budget and the requested period of support are fully justified and reasonable in relation to the proposed research.applications will be evaluated for scientific and technical merit by (an) appropriate scientific review group(s) convened by the scientific review branch, nigms, in accordance with nih peer review policy and procedures, using the stated review criteria. assignment to a scientific review group will be shown in the era commons.as part of the scientific peer review, all applications:applications will be assigned on the basis of established phs referral guidelines to the appropriate nih institute or center. applications will compete for available funds with all other recommended applications submitted in response to this foa. following initial peer review, recommended applications will receive a second level of review by the advisory councils of participating nih institutes or centers. the following will be considered in making funding decisions:information regarding the disposition of applications is available in the nih grants policy statement.if the application is under consideration for funding, nih will request "just-in-time" information from the applicant as described in the nih grants policy statement.a formal notification in the form of a notice of award (noa) will be provided to the applicant organization for successful applications. the noa signed by the grants management officer is the authorizing document and will be sent via email to the grantee’s business official.awardees must comply with any funding restrictions described in section iv.6. funding restrictions. selection of an application for award is not an authorization to begin performance. any costs incurred before receipt of the noa are at the recipient's risk. these costs may be reimbursed only to the extent considered allowable pre-award costs.any application awarded in response to this foa will be subject to terms and conditions found on the award conditions and information for nih grants website. this includes any recent legislation and policy applicable to awards that is highlighted on this website.all nih grant and cooperative agreement awards include the nih grants policy statement as part of the noa. for these terms of award, see the nih grants policy statement part ii: terms and conditions of nih grant awards, subpart a: general and part ii: terms and conditions of nih grant awards, subpart b: terms and conditions for specific types of grants, grantees, and activities. more information is provided at award conditions and information for nih grants.recipients of federal financial assistance (ffa) from hhs must administer their programs in compliance with federal civil rights laws that prohibit discrimination on the basis of race, color, national origin, disability, age and, in some circumstances, religion, conscience, and sex. this includes ensuring programs are accessible to persons with limited english proficiency. the hhs office for civil rights provides guidance on complying with civil rights laws enforced by hhs. please see https://www.hhs.gov/civil-rights/for-providers/provider-obligations/index.html and http://www.hhs.gov/ocr/civilrights/understanding/section1557/index.html.hhs recognizes that research projects are often limited in scope for many reasons that are nondiscriminatory, such as the principal investigator’s scientific interest, funding limitations, recruitment requirements, and other considerations. thus, criteria in research protocols that target or exclude certain populations are warranted where nondiscriminatory justifications establish that such criteria are appropriate with respect to the health or safety of the subjects, the scientific study design, or the purpose of the research. for additional guidance regarding how the provisions apply to nih grant programs, please contact the scientific/research contact that is identified in section vii under agency contacts of this foa.please contact the hhs office for civil rights for more information about obligations and prohibitions under federal civil rights laws at https://www.hhs.gov/ocr/about-us/contact-us/index.html or call 1-800-368-1019 or tdd 1-800-537-7697.in accordance with the statutory provisions contained in section 872 of the duncan hunter national defense authorization act of fiscal year 2009 (public law 110-417), nih awards will be subject to the federal awardee performance and integrity information system (fapiis) requirements. fapiis requires federal award making officials to review and consider information about an applicant in the designated integrity and performance system (currently fapiis) prior to making an award. an applicant, at its option, may review information in the designated integrity and performance systems accessible through fapiis and comment on any information about itself that a federal agency previously entered and is currently in fapiis. the federal awarding agency will consider any comments by the applicant, in addition to other information in fapiis, in making a judgement about the applicant’s integrity, business ethics, and record of performance under federal awards when completing the review of risk posed by applicants as described in 45 cfr part 75.205 “federal awarding agency review of risk posed by applicants.” this provision will apply to all nih grants and cooperative agreements except fellowships.when multiple years are involved, awardees will be required to submit the research performance progress report (rppr) annually. continuation support will not be provided until the required forms are submitted and accepted.the federal funding accountability and transparency act of 2006 (transparency act), includes a requirement for awardees of federal grants to report information about first-tier subawards and executive compensation under federal assistance awards issued in fy2011 or later. all awardees of applicable nih grants and cooperative agreements are required to report to the federal subaward reporting system (fsrs) available at www.fsrs.gov on all subawards over $25,000. see the nih grants policy statement for additional information on this reporting requirement.failure by the grantee institution to submit required forms in a timely, complete, and accurate manner may result in an expenditure disallowance or a delay in any continuation funding for the award.in accordance with the regulatory requirements provided at 45 cfr 75.113 and appendix xii to 45 cfr part 75, recipients that have currently active federal grants, cooperative agreements, and procurement contracts from all federal awarding agencies with a cumulative total value greater than $10,000,000 for any period of time during the period of performance of a federal award, must report and maintain the currency of information reported in the system for award management (sam) about civil, criminal, and administrative proceedings in connection with the award or performance of a federal award that reached final disposition within the most recent five-year period. the recipient must also make semiannual disclosures regarding such proceedings. proceedings information will be made publicly available in the designated integrity and performance system (currently fapiis). this is a statutory requirement under section 872 of public law 110-417, as amended (41 u.s.c. 2313). as required by section 3010 of public law 111-212, all information posted in the designated integrity and performance system on or after april 15, 2011, except past performance reviews required for federal procurement contracts, will be publicly available. full reporting requirements and procedures are found in appendix xii to 45 cfr part 75 – award term and conditions for recipient integrity and performance matters.a final rppr and the expenditure data portion of the federal financial report are required for closeout of an award as described in the nih grants policy statement.in carrying out its stewardship of human resource-related programs, the nih or its institutes and centers will periodically evaluate their r25 research education programs, employing the measures identified below. in assessing the effectiveness of its research education investments, nih may request information from pd/pis and from module users. where necessary, pd/pis and module users may be contacted after the completion of a research education experience for periodic updates on module users' subsequent educational or employment history and professional activities.upon the completion of a program evaluation, nih and its ics will determine whether to (a) continue a program as currently configured, (b) continue a program with modifications, or (c) discontinue a program.in evaluating this program nigms expects to do the following:we encourage inquiries concerning this funding opportunity and welcome the opportunity to answer questions from potential applicants.era service desk (questions regarding assist, era commons, application errors and warnings, documenting system problems that threaten submission by the due date, and post-submission issues)finding help online: http://grants.nih.gov/support/ (preferred method of contact) telephone: 301-402-7469 or 866-504-9552 (toll free)general grants information (questions regarding application instructions, application processes, and nih grant resources) email: grantsinfo@nih.gov (preferred method of contact) telephone: 301-637-3015grants.gov customer support (questions regarding grants.gov registration and workspace) contact center telephone: 800-518-4726 email: support@grants.govsba company registry (questions regarding required registration at the sba company registry and for technical questions or issues) website to email: http://sbir.gov/feedback?type=regkalynda k. gonzales stokes, ph.d. national institute of general medical sciences email: kalynda.stokes@nih.govstephanie constant, ph.d. national institute of general medical sciences email: stephanie.constant@nih.govjustin rosenzweig national institute of general medical sciences (nigms) email: justin.rosenzweig@nih.govrecently issued trans-nih policy notices may affect your application submission. a full list of policy notices published by nih is provided in the nih guide for grants and contracts. all awards are subject to the terms and conditions, cost principles, and other considerations described in the nih grants policy statement.awards are made under the authorization of sections 301 and 405 of the public health service act as amended (42 usc 241 and 284) and under federal regulations 42 cfr part 52 and 45 cfr part 75. weekly toc for this announcement nih funding opportunities and noticesnote: for help accessing pdf, rtf, ms word, excel, powerpoint, audio or video files, see help downloading files.