Early-Stage Preclinical Validation of Therapeutic Leads for Diseases of Interest to the NIDDK (R01 Clinical Trial Not Allowed)
https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/pa-files/PAR-22-111.html
national institutes of health (nih)national institute of diabetes and digestive and kidney diseases (niddk)r01 research project grantapril 26, 2023 - notice of termination of par-22-111- early-stage preclinical validation of therapeutic leads for diseases of interest to the niddk (r01 clinical trial not allowed). see notice not-dk-23-019not-od-23-012 reminder: forms-h grant application forms and instructions must be used for due dates on or after january 25, 2023 - new grant application instructions now availablenot-od-22-190 - adjustments to nih and ahrq grant application due dates between september 22 and september 30, 2022see section iii. 3. additional information on eligibility.the goal of this funding opportunity announcement (foa) is to support translational research that provides strong justification for later stage therapeutics development and preclinical efforts in health-related outcomes relevant to the national institute of diabetes and digestive and kidney diseases. this includes outcomes relevant to diabetes and other endocrine and metabolic diseases, liver and other digestive diseases, nutritional disorders, obesity, kidney and urological diseases, and hematologic diseases. additional information concerning programmatic areas at niddk is available at www.niddk.nih.gov/research-funding/research-programs and applicants are strongly encouraged to discuss research priorities with the scientific contacts for each division.the objective of this foa is to stimulate early-stage preclinical validation of therapeutic leads (that need not be finalized therapeutics, henceforth called "therapeutic leads") such as small molecules or non-viral biologics that are not currently a focus within the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries. it is expected that there is significant novelty in the target, small molecule, or non-viral biologic and in how the resulting therapeutic would differentiate from existing therapies. this must be articulated clearly in the application. it is not intended to support research focused on understanding normal biology, disease processes, generating lists of putative new targets, identifying new therapeutic uses for existing compounds, or identifying mechanism of action for therapeutic leads.at the end of the project period, a successful project will have provided a significant contribution to the data supporting the validity around a therapeutic such that it can advance further for later stage therapeutics development and preclinical efforts through other funding mechanisms, such as the parent r01 or small business programs (https://sbir.nih.gov/niddk/index), spin-off companies, or licensing to or partnering with pharmaceutical companies.june 14, 2022, october 14, 2022, june 14, 2023, october 13, 2023, june 12, 2024, and october 12, 2024all applications are due by 5:00 pm local time of applicant organization.applicants are encouraged to apply early to allow adequate time to make any corrections to errors found in the application during the submission process by the due date.not applicableit is critical that applicants follow the instructions in the research (r) instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide,except where instructed to do otherwise (in this foa or in a notice from nih guide for grants and contracts ).conformance to all requirements (both in the application guide and the foa) is required and strictly enforced. applicants must read and follow all application instructions in the application guide as well as any program-specific instructions noted in section iv. when the program-specific instructions deviate from those in the application guide, follow the program-specific instructions.applications that do not comply with these instructions may be delayed or not accepted for review.there are several options available to submit your application through grants.gov to nih and department of health and human services partners. you must use one of these submission options to access the application forms for this opportunity.backgroundrecent significant advances in genetics, physiology, and the pathogenesis of disease coupled with technological advances have provided a rich knowledge base and strong toolbox to identify and pursue new therapeutics with the goal of generating new molecular, microbial, and cellular therapies for the treatment of disease. despite this, there are numerous failures of potential therapeutics for reasons related to human safety or efficacy, or the inability of a promising preclinical therapeutic to differentiate from those used in current standard clinical care. it is necessary to develop better strategies to validate and prioritize therapeutic leads based on their likelihood of success to safely improve upon current standard of clinical care.research goals and objectivesthis foa is intended to support projects that extend the early-stage preclinical validation of novel small molecules and novel non-viral biologics that are not the focus of significant efforts in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industry. submitted applications should include a strong justification for the selection of the therapeutic lead, and how the therapeutic lead will modulate a health-related outcome of interest to the niddkas described below, and significantly improve upon current standard of clinical care. it is anticipated that applicants will have a strong understanding of relevant prior art, intellectual property, and competitive landscape, and this will support the significance of the therapeutic over the current standard of care. justification of the novelty of the therapeutic should include a discussion of any significant translational efforts in the biotechnology or pharmaceutical industry related to the therapeutic and its target (if known). funding priority will be given for projects that have the potential to significantly improve upon or differentiate from existing clinical care (e.g., an anti-diabetic agent that improves glycemia and protects the kidney would be a priority over one that only improves glycemia; a novel mechanism would be given priority over a heavily mined pathway).prior to submitting an application, investigators are strongly encouraged to contact one of the scientific contacts for this foa to discuss the appropriateness and programmatic priority of the proposed research. information concerning programmatic areas at niddk is available at: www.niddk.nih.gov/research-funding/research-programs.particular areas of interest include, but are not limited to:applications not responsive to this foa:applications proposing the following will be considered non-responsive and will not be reviewed:mechanisms of action of therapeutic leadsthis foa is not intended to support the basic understanding of disease or therapeutic lead processes. mechanistic studies are better suited for the parent r01 (https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/pa-files/pa-20-185.html). the mechanism(s) of action of therapeutic leads supported by this foa under some circumstances do not need to be fully elucidated. this may be particularly true of projects using non-mammalian organisms in which the pleiotropic effects of a compound on multiple interlinked physiological systems or engineered tissue constructs where secretion of cellular factors and cell-cell interactions are likely to be key drivers of efficacy. all projects should explore efficacy and, if appropriate, safety of the therapeutic leads.staging of therapeutic discovery and validationthe process of identifying and validating therapeutic leads such as small molecules or non-viral biologics for the treatment of human disease begins with a hypothesis and can be viewed as progressing along a continuum of increasing confidence leading to widespread acceptance of its use in people https://www.niddk.nih.gov/research-funding/research-programs/translational-research-therapeutic-discovery-development. for the purposes of this foa, these stages are defined as:identification of therapeutic leads: this may occur through a variety of approaches and stages such as identifying targets, screening compound libraries, or constructing prototype non-viral biologics and generating preliminary evidence that they may significantly impact a disease process. (not appropriate for this foa and may be better suited for other programs.)early-stage preclinical validation: pre-clinical hypothesis testing to generate data that, over time, increases confidence that manipulation of disease processes via a specific therapeutic strategy may be clinically efficacious and safe. this process occurs prior to clinical testing of a new therapeutic, and ideally should include the use of human-derived data, tissues, cells, and systems. (appropriate for this foa)preclinical development: activities undertaken to prepare a potential clinical candidate for an ind or bla filing such as gmp manufacturing, extensive glp ind-enabling toxicology, scale-up synthesis, etc. (not appropriate for this foa and may be better suited for other programs.)clinical development and validation: studies conducted in human patient populations to fully understand the efficacy and safety profiles of a therapeutic agent. true validation of a therapeutic agent may take decades of post-regulatory approval data accumulation. (not appropriate for this foa and may be better suited for other programs.)this foa is intended to stimulate research that furthers early-stage preclinical validation of therapeutic leads to a point where there is sufficient scientific evidence to justify larger scale therapeutic discovery and development efforts. it is not intended to support target identification, identification of therapeutic leads, preclinical development, or clinical development and validation. it is expected that later stage therapeutics discovery and development efforts would be pursued via mechanisms outside of this foa such as, but not limited to, spin-off companies, licensing to or partnering with pharmaceutical companies, other funding opportunity announcements, and non-profit organizations.technical aspects around therapeutic leads1. prototype therapeutic lead. the starting points for medicinal chemistry optimization or protein or cellular engineering may have been selected through many approaches such as screening in non-mammalian organism assays, fractionation of natural products, high-throughput screening, phage display libraries, etc. initial prototypes should be well characterized with, when appropriate, a clear path forward for the generation and/or synthesis of more advanced derivatives. in some cases, the proposed therapeutic lead may itself be a candidate for further development. examples of types of characterization around a therapeutic lead are, but not limited tothe submission of applications with back-up prototype therapeutic leads is encouraged to increase the overall likelihood of a successful project.2. assays. established in vitro and/or in vivo assays should be used to support optimization of prototype therapeutic leads and continued preclinical validation. such assays should exhibit reproducible behavior in response to prototype therapeutic leads and, where possible, appropriate comparators.the co-development of new assays (e.g., next-generation animal models, microfluidic-based 3d tissue chips or human organoid systems) may occur alongside benchmarking with more established assays.available related resourcesapplications may propose interaction with niddk-supported existing research consortia, such as the human islet research network (hirnetwork.org), the rebuilding a kidney consortium (rebuildingakidney.org), the nuclear receptor signaling atlas (dknet.org/about/nursa_archive), the innovative science accelerator program (dkisac.org), the kidney precision medicine project (kpmp.org), the type 2 diabetes knowledge portal (www.type2diabetesgenetics.org), the mouse metabolic phenotyping centers (www.mmpc.org), the intestinal stem cell consortium (iscconsortium.org), the genitourinary development molecular anatomy project (www.gudmap.org), the illuminating the druggable genome program (druggablegenome.net), the polycystic kidney disease research resource consortium (www.pkd-rrc.org/), or niddk research centers (www.niddk.nih.gov/about-niddk/research-areas/research-centers). additional niddk-supported resources can be found at the niddk information network (dknet.org).additional opportunities for those who have not yet identified prototype therapeutics, require additional assistance in preclinical development, or are considering commercialization of products should explore the niddk website on translational research for therapeutic discovery and development (https://www.niddk.nih.gov/research-funding/research-programs/translational-research-therapeutic-discovery-development).applicants are also encouraged to take advantage of the resources provided by the national center for advancing translational sciences' clinical translational science awards (ctsas) program, (www.ncats.nih.gov/ctsa). ctsa resources include, for example, core facilities, supercomputer centers, biostatistics, bioinformatics, community engagement network, tissue repositories, and animal models. for more information about resources available at individual ctsas, please see the list of ctsa hubs (www.ncats.nih.gov/ctsa/about/hubs).see section viii. other information for award authorities and regulations.grant: a support mechanism providing money, property, or both to an eligible entity to carry out an approved project or activity.the oer glossary and the sf424 (r&r) application guide provide details on these application types. only those application types listed here are allowed for this foa.the oer glossary and the sf424 (r&r) application guide provide details on these application types. only those application types listed here are allowed for this foa.not allowed: only accepting applications that do not propose clinical trials.need help determining whether you are doing a clinical trial?need help determining whether you are doing a clinical trial?nih intends to fund an estimate of 3-4 awards per year, corresponding to a total of $1.5 million total costs per year, for fy 2023, fy 2024, and fy 2025. future year amounts will depend on annual appropriations.direct costs are expected to be in the range of $250,000 to $300,000 per year.? application budgets may not exceed $500,000 total costs per year.the scope of the proposed project should determine the project period. the maximum project period is 5 years.nih grants policies as described in the nih grants policy statement will apply to the applications submitted and awards made from this foa.1. eligible applicantshigher education institutionsthe following types of higher education institutions are always encouraged to apply for nih support as public or private institutions of higher education:nonprofits other than institutions of higher educationfor-profit organizationslocal governmentsfederal governmentsothernon-domestic (non-u.s.) entities (foreign institutions) are not eligible to apply.non-domestic (non-u.s.) components of u.s. organizations are not eligible to apply.foreign components, as defined in the nih grants policy statement, are allowed.applicant organizationsapplicant organizations must complete and maintain the following registrations as described in the sf 424 (r&r) application guide to be eligible to apply for or receive an award. all registrations must be completed prior to the application being submitted. registration can take 6 weeks or more, so applicants should begin the registration process as soon as possible. the nih policy on late submission of grant applications states that failure to complete registrations in advance of a due date is not a valid reason for a late submission.program directors/principal investigators (pd(s)/pi(s))all pd(s)/pi(s) must have an era commons account. pd(s)/pi(s) should work with their organizational officials to either create a new account or to affiliate their existing account with the applicant organization in era commons. if the pd/pi is also the organizational signing official, they must have two distinct era commons accounts, one for each role. obtaining an era commons account can take up to 2 weeks.any individual(s) with the skills, knowledge, and resources necessary to carry out the proposed research as the program director(s)/principal investigator(s) (pd(s)/pi(s)) is invited to work with his/her organization to develop an application for support. individuals from underrepresented racial and ethnic groups as well as individuals with disabilities are always encouraged to apply for nih support.for institutions/organizations proposing multiple pds/pis, visit the multiple program director/principal investigator policy and submission details in the senior/key person profile (expanded) component of the sf424 (r&r) application guide.2. cost sharingthis foa does not require cost sharing as defined in the nih grants policy statement.3. additional information on eligibilitynumber of applicationsapplicant organizations may submit more than one application, provided that each application is scientifically distinct.the nih will not accept duplicate or highly overlapping applications under review at the same time, per 2.3.7.4 submission of resubmission application. this means that the nih will not accept:1. requesting an application packagethe application forms package specific to this opportunity must be accessed through assist, grants.gov workspace or an institutional system-to-system solution. links to apply using assist or grants.gov workspace are available in part 1 of this foa. see your administrative office for instructions if you plan to use an institutional system-to-system solution.2. content and form of application submissionletter of intentalthough a letter of intent is not required, is not binding, and does not enter into the review of a subsequent application, the information that it contains allows ic staff to estimate the potential review workload and plan the review.by the date listed in part 1. overview information, prospective applicants are asked to submit a letter of intent that includes the following information:the letter of intent should be sent to:anna b. sadusky, ph.d. national institute of diabetes and digestive and kidney diseases (niddk) telephone: 301-827-7036 email: anna.sadusky@nih.govpage limitationsall page limitations described in the sf424 application guide and the table of page limits must be followed.instructions for application submissionnote: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023, the data management and sharing (dms) plan will be attached in the other plan(s) attachment in forms-h and subsequent application forms packages. for due dates on or before january 24, 2023, the data sharing plan and genomic data sharing plan gds) will continue to be attached in the resource sharing plan attachment in forms-g application forms packages.the following section supplements the instructions found in the sf424 (r&r) application guide and should be used for preparing an application to this foa.sf424(r&r) coverall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.sf424(r&r) project/performance site locationsall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.sf424(r&r) other project informationall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.with the following additional instructions:facilities & other resources: this section should contain sufficient information to assess if the scientific environment provides the necessary resources to effectively pursue preclinical validation of therapeutic leads with the goal of translating the knowledge gained to a disease relevant application.sf424(r&r) senior/key person profileall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.with the following additional instructions:biographical sketch: the personal statement of each biographical sketch should indicate how the key/senior personnel's scientific expertise will be applied towards advancing therapeutic lead optimization and/or evaluation with the goal of translating the knowledge gained to disease relevant applications.r&r or modular budgetall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.r&r subaward budgetall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.phs 398 cover page supplementall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.phs 398 research planother plan(s):note: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023, the data management and sharing plan will be attached in the other plan(s) attachment in forms-h and subsequent application forms packages. for due dates on or before january 24, 2023, the data sharing plan and genomic data sharing plan gds) will continue to be attached in the resource sharing plan attachment in forms-g application forms packages.all applicants planning research (funded or conducted in whole or in part by nih) that results in the generation of scientific data are required to comply with the instructions for the data management and sharing plan. all applications, regardless of the amount of direct costs requested for any one year, must address a data management and sharing plan.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed, with the following additional instructions:research strategy: the applicants should describe how the proposed research approach will initiate, continue, or enable the translation of basic research towards strong validation of a therapeutic small molecule or non-viral biologic.additionally, the research strategy must include labeled components, described below, addressing the ‘significant improvements to clinical care within diseases and disorders in the mission of the niddk', 'intellectual property', 'competitive landscape’ and detailing the project's proposed ‘milestones and timelines'. applications lacking any of these sections will be considered incomplete.significant improvements to clinical care within diseases and disorders in the mission of the niddkapplications must include a strong justification for the selection of the therapeutic lead. this must include a discussion of the scientific and therapeutic need for the additional therapeutic agent and how the therapeutic would significantly improve upon or differentiate from existing clinical care (i.e., in a clinically meaningful non-incremental manner).intellectual propertyas part of the justification of novelty of the therapeutic, applications must also include a discussion of the relevant prior art or intellectual property.competitive landscapeas part of the justification of novelty of the therapeutic, applications must also include a discussion of the competitive landscape. any significant translational efforts in the biotechnology or pharmaceutical industry related to the therapeutic and its target (if known) must be described.milestones and timelineapplicants are required to include project performance milestone and timeline objectives, including:resource sharing plan: individuals are required to comply with the instructions for the resource sharing plans as provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.the following modifications also apply:appendix:only limited appendix materials are allowed. follow all instructions for the appendix as described in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.phs human subjects and clinical trials informationwhen involving human subjects research, clinical research, and/or nih-defined clinical trials (and when applicable, clinical trials research experience) follow all instructions for the phs human subjects and clinical trials information form in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, with the following additional instructions:if you answered “yes” to the question “are human subjects involved?” on the r&r other project information form, you must include at least one human subjects study record using the study record: phs human subjects and clinical trials information form or delayed onset study record.study record: phs human subjects and clinical trials informationall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.delayed onset studynote: delayed onset does not apply to a study that can be described but will not start immediately (i.e., delayed start).all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.phs assignment request formall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.3. unique entity identifier and system for award management (sam)see part 1. section iii.1 for information regarding the requirement for obtaining a unique entity identifier and for completing and maintaining active registrations in system for award management (sam), nato commercial and government entity (ncage) code (if applicable), era commons, and grants.gov4. submission dates and timespart i. overview information contains information about key dates and times. applicants are encouraged to submit applications before the due date to ensure they have time to make any application corrections that might be necessary for successful submission. when a submission date falls on a weekend or federal holiday, the application deadline is automatically extended to the next business day.organizations must submit applications to grants.gov (the online portal to find and apply for grants across all federal agencies). applicants must then complete the submission process by tracking the status of the application in the era commons, nih’s electronic system for grants administration. nih and grants.gov systems check the application against many of the application instructions upon submission. errors must be corrected and a changed/corrected application must be submitted to grants.gov on or before the application due date and time. if a changed/corrected application is submitted after the deadline, the application will be considered late. applications that miss the due date and time are subjected to the nih policy on late application submission.applicants are responsible for viewing their application before the due date in the era commons to ensure accurate and successful submission.information on the submission process and a definition of on-time submission are provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.5. intergovernmental review (e.o. 12372)this initiative is not subject to intergovernmental review.6. funding restrictionsall nih awards are subject to the terms and conditions, cost principles, and other considerations described in the nih grants policy statement.pre-award costs are allowable only as described in the nih grants policy statement.7. other submission requirements and informationapplications must be submitted electronically following the instructions described in the sf424 (r&r) application guide. paper applications will not be accepted.applicants must complete all required registrations before the application due date. section iii. eligibility information contains information about registration.for assistance with your electronic application or for more information on the electronic submission process, visit how to apply – application guide. if you encounter a system issue beyond your control that threatens your ability to complete the submission process on-time, you must follow the dealing with system issues guidance. for assistance with application submission, contact the application submission contacts in section vii.important reminders:all pd(s)/pi(s) must include their era commons id in the credential fieldof the senior/key person profile form. failure to register in the commons and to include a valid pd/pi commons id in the credential field will prevent the successful submission of an electronic application to nih. see section iii of this foa for information on registration requirements.the applicant organization must ensure that the unique entity identifier (duns number or uei as required) provided on the application is the same number used in the organization’s profile in the era commons and for the system for award management. additional information may be found in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.see more tips for avoiding common errors.upon receipt, applications will be evaluated for completeness and compliance with application instructions by the center for scientific review and responsiveness by components of participating organizations, nih. applications that are incomplete, non-compliant, and/or nonresponsive will not be reviewed.use of common data elements in nih-funded researchmany nih ics encourage the use of common data elements (cdes) in basic, clinical, and applied research, patient registries, and other human subject research to facilitate broader and more effective use of data and advance research across studies. cdes are data elements that have been identified and defined for use in multiple data sets across different studies. use of cdes can facilitate data sharing and standardization to improve data quality and enable data integration from multiple studies and sources, including electronic health records. nih ics have identified cdes for many clinical domains (e.g., neurological disease), types of studies (e.g., genome-wide association studies (gwas)), types of outcomes (e.g., patient-reported outcomes), and patient registries (e.g., the global rare diseases patient registry and data repository). nih has established a “common data element (cde) resource portal" (https://cde.nlm.nih.gov/home) to assist investigators in identifying nih-supported cdes when developing protocols, case report forms, and other instruments for data collection. the portal provides guidance about and access to nih-supported cde initiatives and other tools and resources for the appropriate use of cdes and data standards in nih-funded research. investigators are encouraged to consult the portal and describe in their applications any use they will make of nih-supported cdes in their projects.post submission materialsapplicants are required to follow the instructions for post-submission materials, as described in the policy. any instructions provided here are in addition to the instructions in the policy.1. criterianote: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023, the data sharing plan and genomic data sharing plan (gds) as part of the resource sharing plan will not be evaluated at time of review.only the review criteria described below will be considered in the review process. applications submitted to the nih in support of the nih mission are evaluated for scientific and technical merit through the nih peer review system.overall impactreviewers will provide an overall impact score to reflect their assessment of the likelihood for the project to exert a sustained, powerful influence on the research field(s) involved, in consideration of the following review criteria and additional review criteria (as applicable for the project proposed).reviewers will consider each of the review criteria below in the determination of scientific merit, and give a separate score for each. an application does not need to be strong in all categories to be judged likely to have major scientific impact. for example, a project that by its nature is not innovative may be essential to advance a field.does the project address an important problem or a critical barrier to progress in the field? is the prior research that serves as the key support for the proposed project rigorous? if the aims of the project are achieved, how will scientific knowledge, technical capability, and/or clinical practice be improved? how will successful completion of the aims change the concepts, methods, technologies, treatments, services, or preventative interventions that drive this field?specific to this foa: how strong is the scientific and therapeutic need for additional therapeutic agent developmenthow likely is the proposed therapeutic to result in clinically-meaningful improvement to care?are the pd(s)/pi(s), collaborators, and other researchers well suited to the project? if early stage investigators or those in the early stages of independent careers, do they have appropriate experience and training? if established, have they demonstrated an ongoing record of accomplishments that have advanced their field(s)? if the project is collaborative or multi-pd/pi, do the investigators have complementary and integrated expertise; are their leadership approach, governance and organizational structure appropriate for the project?specific to this foa: how appropriate is the scientific expertise of the team members to effectively pursue therapeutic lead optimization/evaluation with the goal of translating the knowledge gained to disease relevant applications?does the application challenge and seek to shift current research or clinical practice paradigms by utilizing novel theoretical concepts, approaches or methodologies, instrumentation, or interventions? are the concepts, approaches or methodologies, instrumentation, or interventions novel to one field of research or novel in a broad sense? is a refinement, improvement, or new application of theoretical concepts, approaches or methodologies, instrumentation, or interventions proposed?specific to this foa: how novel is the proposed therapeutic related to treatment paradigms? how novel is the target, small molecule, or non-viral biologic? how well does the application address 'significant improvements to clinical care within diseases and disorders in the mission of the niddk', 'intellectual property', and 'competitive landscape'?are the overall strategy, methodology, and analyses well-reasoned and appropriate to accomplish the specific aims of the project? have the investigators included plans to address weaknesses in the rigor of prior research that serves as the key support for the proposed project? have the investigators presented strategies to ensure a robust and unbiased approach, as appropriate for the work proposed? are potential problems, alternative strategies, and benchmarks for success presented? if the project is in the early stages of development, will the strategy establish feasibility and will particularly risky aspects be managed? have the investigators presented adequate plans to address relevant biological variables, such as sex, for studies in vertebrate animals or human subjects?if the project involves human subjects and/or nih-defined clinical research, are the plans to address 1) the protection of human subjects from research risks, and 2) inclusion (or exclusion) of individuals on the basis of sex/gender, race, and ethnicity, as well as the inclusion or exclusion of individuals of all ages (including children and older adults), justified in terms of the scientific goals and research strategy proposed?specific to this foa: how appropriate are the scope of activities proposed to initiate, continue, or enable the translation of basic research towards strong validation of a therapeutic small molecule or non-viral biologic? how appropriate are the proposed milestones and timelines? how appropriate are the plans for future pre-clinical development?will the scientific environment in which the work will be done contribute to the probability of success? are the institutional support, equipment and other physical resources available to the investigators adequate for the project proposed? will the project benefit from unique features of the scientific environment, subject populations, or collaborative arrangements?specific to this foa: how appropriate is the scientific environment to effectively pursue preclinical validation of therapeutic leads with the goal of translating the knowledge gained to a disease relevant application?as applicable for the project proposed, reviewers will evaluate the following additional items while determining scientific and technical merit, and in providing an overall impact score, but will not give separate scores for these items.for research that involves human subjects but does not involve one of the categories of research that are exempt under 45 cfr part 46, the committee will evaluate the justification for involvement of human subjects and the proposed protections from research risk relating to their participation according to the following five review criteria: 1) risk to subjects, 2) adequacy of protection against risks, 3) potential benefits to the subjects and others, 4) importance of the knowledge to be gained, and 5) data and safety monitoring for clinical trials.for research that involves human subjects and meets the criteria for one or more of the categories of research that are exempt under 45 cfr part 46, the committee will evaluate: 1) the justification for the exemption, 2) human subjects involvement and characteristics, and 3) sources of materials. for additional information on review of the human subjects section, please refer to the guidelines for the review of human subjects.when the proposed project involves human subjects and/or nih-defined clinical research, the committee will evaluate the proposed plans for the inclusion (or exclusion) of individuals on the basis of sex/gender, race, and ethnicity, as well as the inclusion (or exclusion) of individuals of all ages (including children and older adults) to determine if it is justified in terms of the scientific goals and research strategy proposed. for additional information on review of the inclusion section, please refer to the guidelines for the review of inclusion in clinical research.the committee will evaluate the involvement of live vertebrate animals as part of the scientific assessment according to the following criteria: (1) description of proposed procedures involving animals, including species, strains, ages, sex, and total number to be used; (2) justifications for the use of animals versus alternative models and for the appropriateness of the species proposed; (3) interventions to minimize discomfort, distress, pain and injury; and (4) justification for euthanasia method if not consistent with the avma guidelines for the euthanasia of animals. reviewers will assess the use of chimpanzees as they would any other application proposing the use of vertebrate animals. for additional information on review of the vertebrate animals section, please refer to the worksheet for review of the vertebrate animal section.reviewers will assess whether materials or procedures proposed are potentially hazardous to research personnel and/or the environment, and if needed, determine whether adequate protection is proposed.for resubmissions, the committee will evaluate the application as now presented, taking into consideration the responses to comments from the previous scientific review group and changes made to the project.not applicablenot applicablenote: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023, the data sharing plan and genomic data sharing plan (gds) as part of the resource sharing plan will not be evaluated at time of review.as applicable for the project proposed, reviewers will consider each of the following items, but will not give scores for these items, and should not consider them in providing an overall impact score.reviewers will assess whether the project presents special opportunities for furthering research programs through the use of unusual talent, resources, populations, or environmental conditions that exist in other countries and either are not readily available in the united states or augment existing u.s. resources.not applicablereviewers will assess the information provided in this section of the application, including 1) the select agent(s) to be used in the proposed research, 2) the registration status of all entities where select agent(s) will be used, 3) the procedures that will be used to monitor possession use and transfer of select agent(s), and 4) plans for appropriate biosafety, biocontainment, and security of the select agent(s).reviewers will comment on whether the following resource sharing plans, or the rationale for not sharing the following types of resources, are reasonable: (1) data sharing plan; (2) sharing model organisms; and (3) genomic data sharing plan (gds).for projects involving key biological and/or chemical resources, reviewers will comment on the brief plans proposed for identifying and ensuring the validity of those resources.reviewers will consider whether the budget and the requested period of support are fully justified and reasonable in relation to the proposed research.2. review and selection processapplications will be evaluated for scientific and technical merit by (an) appropriate scientific review group(s), convened by the center for scientific review in accordance with nih peer review policy and procedures, using the stated review criteria. assignment to a scientific review group will be shown in the era commons.as part of the scientific peer review, all applications will receive a written critique.applications may undergo a selection process in which only those applications deemed to have the highest scientific and technical merit (generally the top half of applications under review) will be discussed and assigned an overall impact score.applications will be assigned on the basis of established phs referral guidelines to the appropriate nih institute or center. applications will compete for available funds with all other recommended applications. following initial peer review, recommended applications will receive a second level of review by the national diabetes and digestive and kidney diseases advisory council (nddkac).the following will be considered in making funding decisions:3. anticipated announcement and award datesafter the peer review of the application is completed, the pd/pi will be able to access his or her summary statement (written critique) via the era commons. refer to part 1 for dates for peer review, advisory council review, and earliest start date.information regarding the disposition of applications is available in the nih grants policy statement.1. award noticesif the application is under consideration for funding, nih will request "just-in-time" information from the applicant as described in the nih grants policy statement.a formal notification in the form of a notice of award (noa) will be provided to the applicant organization for successful applications. the noa signed by the grants management officer is the authorizing document and will be sent via email to the recipient's business official.recipients must comply with any funding restrictions described in section iv.6. funding restrictions. selection of an application for award is not an authorization to begin performance. any costs incurred before receipt of the noa are at the recipient's risk. these costs may be reimbursed only to the extent considered allowable pre-award costs.any application awarded in response to this foa will be subject to terms and conditions found on the award conditions and information for nih grants website. this includes any recent legislation and policy applicable to awards that is highlighted on this website.institutional review board or independent ethics committee approval: recipient institutions must ensure that protocols are reviewed by their irb or iec. to help ensure the safety of participants enrolled in nih-funded studies, the recipient must provide nih copies of documents related to all major changes in the status of ongoing protocols.2. administrative and national policy requirementsall nih grant and cooperative agreement awards include the nih grants policy statement as part of the noa. for these terms of award, see the nih grants policy statement part ii: terms and conditions of nih grant awards, subpart a: general and part ii: terms and conditions of nih grant awards, subpart b: terms and conditions for specific types of grants, recipients, and activities, including of note, but not limited to:if a recipient is successful and receives a notice of award, in accepting the award, the recipient agrees that any activities under the award are subject to all provisions currently in effect or implemented during the period of the award, other department regulations and policies in effect at the time of the award, and applicable statutory provisions.should the applicant organization successfully compete for an award, recipients of federal financial assistance (ffa) from hhs must administer their programs in compliance with federal civil rights laws that prohibit discrimination on the basis of race, color, national origin, disability, age and, in some circumstances, religion, conscience, and sex (including gender identify, sexual orientation, and pregnancy). this includes ensuring programs are accessible to persons with limited english proficiency and persons with disabilities. the hhs office for civil rights provides guidance on complying with civil rights laws enforced by hhs. please see https://www.hhs.gov/civil-rights/for-providers/provider-obligations/index.html and https://www.hhs.gov/civil-rights/for-individuals/nondiscrimination/index.htmlhhs recognizes that research projects are often limited in scope for many reasons that are nondiscriminatory, such as the principal investigator’s scientific interest, funding limitations, recruitment requirements, and other considerations. thus, criteria in research protocols that target or exclude certain populations are warranted where nondiscriminatory justifications establish that such criteria are appropriate with respect to the health or safety of the subjects, the scientific study design, or the purpose of the research. for additional guidance regarding how the provisions apply to nih grant programs, please contact the scientific/research contact that is identified in section vii under agency contacts of this foa.please contact the hhs office for civil rights for more information about obligations and prohibitions under federal civil rights laws at https://www.hhs.gov/ocr/about-us/contact-us/index.html or call 1-800-368-1019 or tdd 1-800-537-7697.in accordance with the statutory provisions contained in section 872 of the duncan hunter national defense authorization act of fiscal year 2009 (public law 110-417), nih awards will be subject to the federal awardee performance and integrity information system (fapiis) requirements. fapiis requires federal award making officials to review and consider information about an applicant in the designated integrity and performance system (currently fapiis) prior to making an award. an applicant, at its option, may review information in the designated integrity and performance systems accessible through fapiis and comment on any information about itself that a federal agency previously entered and is currently in fapiis. the federal awarding agency will consider any comments by the applicant, in addition to other information in fapiis, in making a judgement about the applicant’s integrity, business ethics, and record of performance under federal awards when completing the review of risk posed by applicants as described in 45 cfr part 75.205 and 2 cfr part 200.206 “federal awarding agency review of risk posed by applicants.” this provision will apply to all nih grants and cooperative agreements except fellowships.not applicabledata management and sharingnote: the nih policy for data management and sharing is effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023.consistent with the nih policy for data management and sharing, when data management and sharing is applicable to the award, recipients will be required to adhere to the data management and sharing requirements as outlined in the nih grants policy statement. upon the approval of a data management and sharing plan, it is required for recipients to implement the plan as described.3. reportingwhen multiple years are involved, recipients will be required to submit the research performance progress report (rppr) annually and financial statements as required in the nih grants policy statement.a final rppr, invention statement, and the expenditure data portion of the federal financial report are required for closeout of an award, as described in the nih grants policy statement. nih foas outline intended research goals and objectives. post award, nih will review and measure performance based on the details and outcomes that are shared within the rppr, as described at 45 cfr part 75.301 and 2 cfr part 200.301.the federal funding accountability and transparency act of 2006 (transparency act), includes a requirement for recipients of federal grants to report information about first-tier subawards and executive compensation under federal assistance awards issued in fy2011 or later. all recipients of applicable nih grants and cooperative agreements are required to report to the federal subaward reporting system (fsrs) available at www.fsrs.gov on all subawards over the threshold. see the nih grants policy statement for additional information on this reporting requirement.in accordance with the regulatory requirements provided at 45 cfr 75.113 and 2 cfr part 200.113 and appendix xii to 45 cfr part 75 and 2 cfr part 200, recipients that have currently active federal grants, cooperative agreements, and procurement contracts from all federal awarding agencies with a cumulative total value greater than $10,000,000 for any period of time during the period of performance of a federal award, must report and maintain the currency of information reported in the system for award management (sam) about civil, criminal, and administrative proceedings in connection with the award or performance of a federal award that reached final disposition within the most recent five-year period. the recipient must also make semiannual disclosures regarding such proceedings. proceedings information will be made publicly available in the designated integrity and performance system (currently fapiis). this is a statutory requirement under section 872 of public law 110-417, as amended (41 u.s.c. 2313). as required by section 3010 of public law 111-212, all information posted in the designated integrity and performance system on or after april 15, 2011, except past performance reviews required for federal procurement contracts, will be publicly available. full reporting requirements and procedures are found in appendix xii to 45 cfr part 75 and 2 cfr part 200 – award term and condition for recipient integrity and performance matters.we encourage inquiries concerning this funding opportunity and welcome the opportunity to answer questions from potential applicants.era service desk (questions regarding assist, era commons, application errors and warnings, documenting system problems that threaten submission by the due date, and post-submission issues)finding help online: http://grants.nih.gov/support/ (preferred method of contact) telephone: 301-402-7469 or 866-504-9552 (toll free)general grants information (questions regarding application instructions, application processes, and nih grant resources) email: grantsinfo@nih.gov (preferred method of contact) telephone: 301-637-3015grants.gov customer support (questions regarding grants.gov registration and workspace) contact center telephone: 800-518-4726 email: support@grants.govfor division of diabetes, endocrinology and metabolic diseases-related inquiries:yan li, ph.d. national institute of diabetes and digestive and kidney diseases (niddk) telephone: 301-435-3721 email:?yan.li5@nih.govfor division of digestive diseases and nutrition-related inquiries:bonnie burgess-beusse, ph.d. division of digestive diseases and nutrition national institute of diabetes and digestive and kidney diseases (niddk) telephone: 301-594-4726 email:?bonnie.burgess-beusse@nih.govfor division of kidney, urologic, and hematologic-related inquiries:anna sadusky, ph.d. national institute of diabetes and digestive and kidney diseases (niddk) telephone: 301-827-7036 email:?anna.sadusky@nih.govexamine your era commons account for review assignment and contact information (information appears two weeks after the submission due date).christina coriz national institute of diabetes and digestive and kidney diseases (niddk) telephone: 301-594-8848 email: corizc@niddk.nih.govrecently issued trans-nih policy notices may affect your application submission. a full list of policy notices published by nih is provided in the nih guide for grants and contracts. all awards are subject to the terms and conditions, cost principles, and other considerations described in the nih grants policy statement.awards are made under the authorization of sections 301 and 405 of the public health service act as amended (42 usc 241 and 284) and under federal regulations 42 cfr part 52 and 45 cfr part 75 and 2 cfr part 200.weekly toc for this announcement nih funding opportunities and noticesnote: for help accessing pdf, rtf, ms word, excel, powerpoint, audio or video files, see help downloading files.