Specialized Programs of Research Excellence (SPOREs) in Human Cancers for Years 2021, 2022, and 2023 (P50 Clinical Trial Required)
national institutes of health (nih)national cancer institute (nci) national institute of dental and craniofacial research (nidcr) specialized programs of research excellence (spores) in human cancers for years 2021, 2022, 2023 (p50 clinical trial required)p50 specialized centerreissue of par-18-313not-od-23-012 reminder: forms-h grant application forms and instructions must be used for due dates on or after january 25, 2023 - new grant application instructions now available not-od-22-190 - adjustments to nih and ahrq grant application due dates between september 22 and september 30, 2022 october 28, 2021 - reminder: forms-g grant application forms & instructions must be used for due dates on or after january 25, 2022 - new grant application instructions now available. see notice not-od-22-018.september 13, 2021 - updates to the non-discrimination legal requirements for nih recipients. see notice not-od-21-181. august 5, 2021 - new nih "forms-g" grant application forms and instructions coming for due dates on or after january 25, 2022. see notice not-od-21-169.august 5, 2021 - update: notification of upcoming change in federal-wide unique entity identifier requirements. see notice not-od-21-170april 20, 2021 - expanding requirement for era commons ids to all senior/key personnel. see notice not-od-21-109par-20-305nonesee section iii. 3. additional information on eligibility.93.395; 93.121through this funding opportunity announcement (foa), the national cancer institute (nci) and national institute of dental and craniofacial research (nidcr) invite applications for p50 research center grants for specialized programs of research excellence (spore). the program will fund p50 spore grants to support state-of-the-art investigator-initiated translational research that will contribute to improved prevention, early detection, diagnosis, and treatment of an organ-specific cancer or a highly related group of cancers. for the purpose of this foa, a group of highly related cancers are those that are derived from the same organ system, such as gastrointestinal, neuroendocrine, head and neck, and other cancers. other programmatically appropriate groups of cancers may include those centered around a common biological mechanism critical for promoting tumorigenesis and/or cancer progression in organ sites that belong to different organ systems. for example, a spore may focus on cancers caused by the same infectious agent or cancers promoted and sustained by dysregulation of a common signaling pathway. in addition, a spore may focus on cross-cutting themes such as pediatric cancers or cancer health disparities. the research supported through this program must be translational and must stem from research on human biology using cellular, molecular, structural, biochemical, and/or genetic experimental approaches. spore projects must have the goal of reaching a translational human endpoint within the project period of the grant.september 28, 2020 december 25, 202030 days prior to the application due datestandard dates apply.the first standard due date for this foa is january 25, 2021.all applications are due by 5:00 pm local time of applicant organization. all types of non-aids applications allowed for this funding opportunity announcement are due on the listed date(s). applicants are encouraged to apply early to allow adequate time to make any corrections to errors found in the application during the submission process by the due datenot applicablestandard dates apply standard dates applystandard dates applyjanuary 8, 2024not applicableit is critical that applicants follow the multi-project (m) instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, except where instructed to do otherwise (in this foa or in a notice from the nih guide for grants and contracts). conformance to all requirements (both in the application guide and the foa) is required and strictly enforced. applicants must read and follow all application instructions in the application guide as well as any program-specific instructions noted in section iv. when the program-specific instructions deviate from those in the application guide, follow the program-specific instructions. applications that do not comply with these instructions may be delayed or not accepted for review.there are several options available to submit your application through grants.gov to nih and department of health and human services partners. you must use one of these submission options to access the application forms for this opportunity.part 1. overview information part 2. full text of the announcementsection i. funding opportunity description section ii. award information section iii. eligibility information section iv. application and submission information section v. application review information section vi. award administration information section vii. agency contacts section viii. other informationthrough this funding opportunity announcement (foa), the national cancer institute (nci) invites applications for p50 research center grants for specialized programs of research excellence (spore). the program will fund p50 spore grants to support state-of-the-art investigator-initiated translational research that will contribute to improved prevention, early detection, diagnosis, and treatment of an organ-specific cancer or a related group of cancers. for the purpose of this foa, a group of highly related cancers are those that are derived from the same organ system, such as gastrointestinal, neuroendocrine, head and neck, and other cancers. other programmatically appropriate groups of cancers may include those centered around a common biological mechanism critical for promoting tumorigenesis and/or cancer progression in organ sites that belong to different organ systems. for example, a spore may focus on cancers caused by the same infectious agent or cancers sustained and promoted by dysregulation of a common signaling pathway. in addition, a spore may focus on cross-cutting themes such as pediatric cancers or cancer health disparities. the research supported through this program must be translational and must stem from research on human biology using cellular, molecular, structural, biochemical, and/or genetic experimental approaches. spore projects must have the goal of reaching a translational human endpoint within the project period of the grant.key definitions in the context of this foa1. translational research:translational research uses knowledge of human biology to develop and test the feasibility of cancer-relevant interventions in humans and/or determines the biological basis for observations made in individuals with cancer or in populations at risk for cancer. the term "interventions" is used in its broadest sense to include molecular assays, imaging techniques, drugs, biological agents, and/or other methodologies applicable to the prevention, early detection, diagnosis, prognosis, and/or treatment of cancer. spore translational research projects may involve the use of any cellular, molecular, structural, biochemical, and/or genetic experimental approaches. by this definition, spore projects are permitted to move not only in the forward direction, toward clinical trials and studies in areas of prevention, early detection, treatment, development of biomarkers, and population science, but also in the reverse direction, using human biospecimens, often from clinical trials, to study new phenomena, to optimize previous findings, or to develop new hypotheses based on results from human studies.2. early detection, prevention, or population science (epps):3. scientific collaborations:4. clinical trial:a clinical research study as defined by nih (https://grants.nih.gov/policy/clinical-trials/definition.htm). a population science study is acceptable if it meets this clinical trial definition.5. underrepresented racial and ethnic groups:racial and ethnic groups underrepresented in health-related sciences and on a national basis as described by nih (https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/notice-files/not-od-20-031.html).in most cases, individual spore applications are expected to focus on a particular organ-specific cancer, such as breast or prostate, or a group of related cancers that belong to a common organ system, for example gastrointestinal cancers, neuroendocrine cancers, or sarcoma. alternatively, some spores may focus on cancers related by common biological pathway mutations/alterations or on cancers related by other cross-cutting themes, such as pediatric cancers, virus-related cancers, or cancer health disparities. in addition, all spores include the following common features:1. translational research focusall spores must be focused on translational research that meets the definition provided above (see key definitions section). spores are dedicated to capitalizing on research opportunities that have the potential to change the current paradigm in the prevention, detection, diagnosis, and/or treatment of human cancer. spore projects may include basic science objectives if those objectives are relevant to human cancer and will lead to a human endpoint within the 5-year project period of the grant.2. flexibility to change research direction/team approachthe flexibility of the spore program was established in order for the pd(s)/pi(s) to terminate research projects that accomplished translational goals earlier than anticipated or that demonstrate little or no translational progress, and to replace them with new projects that have translational potential. as a result of this flexibility, the team of scientists that participates in spore projects may or may not remain the same, and the roles of co-leaders on projects may change throughout the course of the funding period. the flexibility option may not be used to add full scientific projects over and above the number of projects that was peer reviewed, even if no new funds are requested.the pd(s)/pi(s) of the spore are expected to make decisions about the continuation or discontinuation of projects in consultation with internal and external advisors, as well as with other lead investigators on the spore. the flexibility option is available only after the first year of the funding period for spores with three or more scientific research projects; a new project cannot be proposed for one that has overlap with an awarded or soon-to-be awarded u.s. public health service (phs) grant.3. specialized research infrastructurespores are expected to establish the critical research infrastructure needed to sustain the translational research projects proposed within the spore. spores must be in a position to facilitate the complex research objectives inherent in studying human cancer. it is essential that robust mechanisms be in place for making shared resource data generated by the spore readily accessible to research and clinical investigators in the broader scientific community.spores should support the establishment of translational research cores that fill broad institutional infrastructure gaps. spores also should utilize and augment existing cores within cancer centers and other institutional facilities wherever feasible. spore cores should not duplicate existing institutional cores, or other resources.4. fostering translational research careersspores provide a unique environment for translational research that can be used to prepare new scientists for careers in this evolving field or provide the opportunity for established scientists to re-orient their research careers toward translational research.5. research collaborations, networks, and consortiaspores are expected to identify the kinds of research questions that can only be accomplished through collaborations, networks, and consortia and take full advantage of spore scientific expertise and infrastructure.6. participation in nci-sponsored meetings, workshops, and other activitiesspore directors and other spore investigators should participate in nci-sponsored meetings, workshops, and working groups to share expertise and research results with other translational research grantees. goals of these meetings may include identification of consensus data standards, sharing of materials and data, assessing progress, and identification of new collaborative opportunities.this funding opportunity announcement (foa) invites applications for p50 research center grants for specialized programs of research excellence (spores) in organ-specific, groups of highly related cancers, or cancers driven by common activation pathways or cross-cutting themes. this foa targets applicant institutions with a demonstrated ability to conduct translational research (see key definitions) in the prevention, early detection, diagnosis, and/or treatment of human cancer. applications focusing on novel cross-cutting themes are encouraged, including, but not limited to: targeting of commonly mutated oncogenes or reactivating tumor suppressor genes; cancers centered around a common biological mechanism; pediatric cancers; or cancer health disparities. applicants are encouraged to consult with nci staff members in the translational research program (trp) regarding the focus of their application.all proposed spore projects must be translational. in every spore project, the development of new cancer-relevant interventions should include both a laboratory component and a human endpoint that must be reached during the project period of the grant.in each spore project, at least one of the following types of human endpoints should be proposed:experiments using cell lines, xenografts, patient-derived xenografts (pdx), organoids, paired germline samples, or engineered tissues may be important to the translational studies proposed and are encouraged, but are not sufficient to meet the human endpoint requirement.all spore applications must include at least one project that proposes, as a specific aim, a spore investigator-initiated clinical trial. the clinical trial can also serve as the required human endpoint for that proposed project. an ind-directed toxicology study can serve as a human endpoint, but it is not sufficient to satisfy the clinical trial requirement. inherent in this process is the interdependence between investigators conducting basic and applied research. clinical and/or epidemiological research that does not include a wet laboratory or imaging component is not considered translational for the spore.1. research projectsresearch projects may be conducted solely through the parent institution, or through collaborative associations that have been developed and/or are planned with other spores and/or with other investigators in the biomedical research community. all spores should meet the following criteria:spore applications are encouraged to include the following:2. administrative corean administrative core is required. this core describes the spore's organization and capabilities, including the organizational, administrative, scientific, clinical, and data management of the spore and explains how coordination and communication will be achieved among the different projects and programs, shared resources cores, and participating institutions at the overall program level.3. shared resources coresspore applications are required to include a biospecimen/pathology shared resource core and have the option to include other shared resources cores that provide laboratory and/or clinical facilities, equipment, and/or services to be shared by one or more research projects and the developmental programs. a biostatistical core is strongly encouraged. shared resources cores may include non–hypothesis-driven research activities (e.g., technology development) provided that the research is designed to improve core services.the shared resources cores within the spore should not duplicate any shared resource facilities that are already available to the research group but may build upon these facilities for unique capabilities required by the spore.4. developmental research program (drp)each spore must allocate a significant effort to support pilot projects that take maximum advantage of new research opportunities in the organ site, group of highly related cancers or cross-cutting theme that is the focus of the spore. the pilot projects may be collaborative among scientists within one or more spores, or with scientists outside the spore community. high-risk/high-payoff pilot projects are especially encouraged. these pilot projects are not required to reach a human endpoint during the project period as do full projects.as a required component of a spore, a drp must be maintained throughout the entire term of the grant. the drp should be structured in a way that the awards run in parallel with the current budget period. with the approval of the spore’s external advisory board and the assigned nci program director, drp studies may become full spore projects as part of the flexibility option if the drp study has translational research potential within the spore and incorporates a human endpoint within one of the project aims.5. career enhancement program (cep)the spore must demonstrate a consistent and substantial commitment to a career enhancement program (cep) in translational research. as a required element of the spore, the cep must be maintained throughout the entire term of the funding period. the cep should be structured in a way that the awards run in parallel with the current budget period. funds from this program may be used to support junior faculty or established investigators who wish to enhance or refocus their careers on translational research. cep awardees are expected to interact with spore-associated translational research advisors to guide the project and monitor progress. this program is not a training program and does not support pre- or post-doctoral fellows, irrespective of whether they are working in the pre-clinical or clinical domain. however, advanced post-doctoral or clinical fellows who provide a letter from an institution stating that the candidate will be joining its faculty within the year are eligible for this program. investigators supported by nci career development awards (k series) may also be eligible for support through this program. similar to drp projects, cep may become full projects as part of the flexibility option with the approval of the spore’s external advisory board and the assigned nci program director.6. scientific collaborationeach spore must demonstrate a commitment to both horizontal and vertical collaboration (see key definitions section) in completing preclinical projects and moving promising results along the pathway of translational/clinical development. through the promotion of inter-spore research, spores also conceive and initiate research that is further linked to other key programs of the nci, nih, and other government and non-government programs. acceleration of therapeutic agent development or biomarker development is encouraged. however, not every project within a spore must involve collaborations.the following types of activities remain outside of the scope of this foa and are non-responsive (non-responsive applications will not be reviewed):each prospective spore applicant is advised to schedule a pre-application consultation with the assigned nci staff. the consultation should be scheduled at least 4 to 6 months in advance of the application due date and is intended to help the pd/pi (along with one or more of his/her intended co-investigators) understand the program and its translational objectives, and discuss strategies for preparing a competitive application. nci staff will clarify spore requirements, current nci budget allocations, and describe the peer-review process. the nci staff can also answer questions about nci-supported clinical trial and other collaborative resources that might be available beyond the funded activities of the spore as part of planned vertical collaborations.pds/pis of resubmission and renewal applications have also found it useful to schedule a pre-application discussion with nci staff, as program and review policies may have changed since the previous submission.requests for supplemental funding for spores are rare and may be awarded only in unusual and compelling circumstances. those awardees who wish to submit such an application are encouraged to speak first with their program officer at the nci.see section viii. other information for award authorities and regulations.see section viii. other information for award authorities and regulations.grant: a support mechanism providing money, property, or both to an eligible entity to carry out an approved project or activity.new renewal resubmission revisionthe oer glossary and the sf424 (r&r) application guide provide details on these application types. only those application types listed here are allowed for this foa.required: only accepting applications that propose clinical trial(s)need help determining whether you are doing a clinical trial?the number of awards is contingent upon nih appropriations and the submission of a sufficient number of meritorious applications.approximately six to ten spore awards per year are anticipated.applicants may request a maximum of $1,400,000 direct costs/year, which excludes third-party indirect costs.applications that include one or more qualified early detection, prevention, or population science (qualified epps) project(s) may request up to an additional $120,000 direct costs/year to support this project(s) and supporting cores, if appropriate.the maximum budget period is 5 years.nih grants policies as described in the nih grants policy statement will apply to the applications submitted and awards made from this foa.higher education institutionsthe following types of higher education institutions are always encouraged to apply for nih support as public or private institutions of higher education:nonprofits other than institutions of higher educationfor-profit organizationsgovernmentsothernon-domestic (non-u.s.) entities (foreign institutions) are not eligible to apply. non-domestic (non-u.s.) components of u.s. organizations are not eligible to apply. foreign components, as defined in the nih grants policy statement, are allowed.applicant organizationsapplicant organizations must complete and maintain the following registrations as described in the sf 424 (r&r) application guide to be eligible to apply for or receive an award. all registrations must be completed prior to the application being submitted. registration can take 6 weeks or more, so applicants should begin the registration process as soon as possible. the nih policy on late submission of grant applications states that failure to complete registrations in advance of a due date is not a valid reason for a late submission.program directors/principal investigators (pd(s)/pi(s))all pd(s)/pi(s) must have an era commons account. pd(s)/pi(s) should work with their organizational officials to either create a new account or to affiliate their existing account with the applicant organization in era commons. if the pd/pi is also the organizational signing official, they must have two distinct era commons accounts, one for each role. obtaining an era commons account can take up to 2 weeks.any individual(s) with the skills, knowledge, and resources necessary to carry out the proposed research as the program director(s)/principal investigator(s) (pd(s)/pi(s)) is invited to work with his/her organization to develop an application for support. individuals from underrepresented racial and ethnic groups as well as individuals with disabilities are always encouraged to apply for nih support.for institutions/organizations proposing multiple pds/pis, visit the multiple program director/principal investigator policy and submission details in the senior/key person profile (expanded) component of the sf424 (r&r) application guide.investigators can only serve as a pi/multi-pi on one funded spore p50 at a time. however, investigators may have other roles (i.e., co-leader, core director) on multiple spore p50s concurrently, even from more than one institution.minimum research base: in order for a spore application to be programmatically considered for award by nci, the application must include four or more independent investigators who currently serve as pds/pis (or project leaders) on peer-reviewed research grants (e.g., r01, r21, p01, u01, u10, american cancer society [acs], u.s. department of defense [dod], or equivalent) or are overall chairpersons or site chairpersons on an active nci-sponsored clinical trial. these activities must be directly related to the cancer(s) being investigated in the spore or the specific expertise required for the spore. pds/pis supported by the nci’s non-mentored “k” career development grants or the r00 portion of the k99/r00 award can also be included in the research base requirement if the career award is directly relevant to the cancer(s) being investigated or the specific expertise required for the spore project. please note that an investigator who is a pd/pi on multiple qualified grants or clinical trials counts only once towards the research base, and to qualify, the investigator must be the pd/pi on the highlighted activity. the qualifying investigators also must serve on the spore as a pd/pi, a multi-pd/pi, project co-leader or shared resources core director.this foa does not require cost sharing as defined in the nih grants policy statement.applicant organizations may submit more than one application, provided that each application is scientifically distinct.the nih will not accept duplicate or highly overlapping applications under review at the same time. this means that the nih will not accept:note: it is acceptable for investigators to concurrently submit the same or overlapping research proposal as a spore project and an independent r01, r21, etc., application to the nih. however, pd(s)/pi(s) must be prepared to relinquish the r01 (or other single project) award if both are determined to be eligible for funding. investigators may not concurrently submit both a p01 and a p50 application requesting support for the same projects/activities. potential overlap will be evaluated by nci staff prior to award; submitted applications will not be reviewed if they do not conform to nih policies or if they fail to meet the minimum requirements of the spore program.an applicant organization cannot have multiple spores with the same overall scientific focus/theme, even if there is no overlap in scientific content. moreover, an applicant organization cannot have a spore with a project that overlaps with the overall scientific focus/theme of another spore at the applicant organization. this is particularly relevant for spores focused on groups of highly related cancers or a cross-cutting theme.the application forms package specific to this opportunity must be accessed through assist or an institutional system-to-system solution. a button to apply using assist is available in part 1 of this foa. see your administrative office for instructions if you plan to use an institutional system-to-system solution.it is critical that applicants follow the multi-project (m) instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, except where instructed in this funding opportunity announcement to do otherwise and where instructions in the application guide are directly related to the grants.gov downloadable forms currently used with most nih opportunities. conformance to the requirements in the application guide is required and strictly enforced. applications that are out of compliance with these instructions may be delayed or not accepted for review.although a letter of intent is not required, is not binding, and does not enter into the review of a subsequent application, the information that it contains allows ic staff to estimate the potential review workload and plan the review.by the date listed in part 1. overview information, prospective applicants are asked to submit a letter of intent that includes the following information:the letter of intent should be sent to:igor a. kuzmin, ph.d. translational research program (trp) division of cancer treatment and diagnosis (dctd) national cancer institute (nci) telephone: 240-276-5684 fax: 240-276-7881 email: kuzmini@mail.nih.govavailable component typesresearch strategy/program plan page limitsoverall30admin core12project (use for research projects)12 pages eachcore (use for shared resources cores which includes required biospecimen/pathology core and optional other cores)12 pages eachdev res prog (use for developmental research program (drp))12career enh prog (use for career enhancement program (cep))12additional page limits described in the sf424 application guide and the table of page limits must be followed.the following section supplements the instructions found in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, and should be used for preparing a multi-component application. revision applications must include an overall component and the components that are affected by the revision. therefore, the component requirements listed below may not apply to the revision application.the application should consist of the following components:when preparing your application, use component type ‘overall’.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed, with the following additional instructions, as noted.complete entire form.note: human embryonic stem cell lines from other components should be repeated in cell line table in overall component.follow standard instructions.project summary/abstract: provide overall goals/abstract/summary for the entire spore application.project narrative: in the "project narrative", the relevance of the spore's research to public health should be stated.facilities and other resources: provide a description of all resources available for the entire spore.other attachments: the following "other attachments" may be included with the overall component in order to aid in the review of applications. the filename provided for each attachment will be the name used for the bookmark in the application image.tables, graphs, figures, diagrams and charts relevant to the overall component.enter primary site only.a summary of project/performance sites in the overall section of the assembled application image in era commons compiled from data collected in the other components will be generated upon submission.include only the project director/principal investigator (pd/pi) and any multi-pds/pis (if applicable to this foa) for the entire application. if an applicant's institution is associated with an nci-designated cancer center, the spore pd/pi should hold a senior position in the cancer center. alternatively, if this position is not currently held, an appointment for such a position should begin once nci spore funding is secured. the pd/pi's prominent role in the cancer center is expected to facilitate interactions between the spore and cancer center leadership. the pd(s)/pi(s) of the spore may be the cancer center director.a summary of senior/key persons followed by their biographical sketches in the overall section of the assembled application image in era commons will be generated upon submission.the only budget information included in the overall component is the estimated project funding section of the sf424 (r&r) cover.each pd/pi must serve a combined effort of at least 2.4 person months (pm) unless there are three or more pd/pis in multiple pd/pi applications. in such a case, the minimum level of effort can be reduced to 1.8 pm for each multiple pd/pi.a budget summary in the overall section of the assembled application image in era commons compiled from detailed budget data collected in the other components will be generated upon submission.note: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023, the data management and sharing (dms) plan will be attached in the other plan(s) attachment of the overall component in forms-h and subsequent application forms packages. for due dates on or before january 24, 2023, the data sharing plan and genomic data sharing plan gds) will continue to be attached in the resource sharing plan attachment in forms-g application forms packages.all applicants planning research (funded or conducted in whole or in part by nih) that results in the generation of scientific data are required to comply with the instructions for the data management and sharing plan. all applications, regardless of the amount of direct costs requested for any one year, must address a data management and sharing plan. the data management and sharing (dms) plan must be provided in the overall component.introduction to application: for resubmission and revision applications, an introduction to application is required in the overall component.specific aims: succinctly list the specific objectives and goals of the spore as a whole. summarize the expected outcome(s) of the spore as a whole, including the impact that the results of the proposed translational research will have on prevention, early detection, diagnosis and/or treatment of the organ-site specific cancer, group of highly related cancers, or cross-cutting cancer theme chosen for study.research strategy: organize the overall research strategy section in the specified order using the instructions provided below. start each sub-section with the appropriate heading: overall significance; overall innovation; and overall approach. additional sub-sections of preliminary studies (for new applications) and progress report (for renewal applications) should be included in this section as well. this section should be used to discuss the overall translational strategies that will be employed in the spore to reach human endpoints within the project period. in addition, discuss planned activities relating to scientific collaboration in a separate sub-section. applications may include discussions of all the projects together for overall significance, innovation, and approach for the spore, or discuss each project separately. pds/pis of renewal applications should succinctly address the most significant translational research achievements in the current funding period of support, including results that were the basis of further movement across translational and clinical trial programs, and their potential impact on human cancer. renewal applications should also discuss the use of the spore’s flexibility to drop projects that are not meeting translational research milestones or have been completed successfully and replacement of those projects with new, promising projects during the current funding award period.renewal applications have the option to propose a two-project spore, as opposed to the required minimum of three projects as described in part 2. section i. major components of spore application. this two-project spore option will not be available upon subsequent renewal. the applicant should explain why the two-project option was selected.overall significanceoverall innovationoverall approachpreliminary studiessummarize the preliminary studies that led to developing the spore application. more detailed preliminary studies sections should be included in the individual research projects and shared resources cores.scientific collaborationinformation related to scientific collaborations must be provided within the overall component. succinctly address the following:applicants should describe potential collaborative arrangements for developing therapeutics, and biomarkers and for expanding population and cancer prevention studies beyond the limits of the spore, should early clinical studies prove to be successful. first renewal applications that have not yet reached the 5-year period in which they must show a human endpoint should give a timeline with milestones of where each project is on the translational continuum and what collaborative arrangements, if any, will be made if the spore studies are successful. second renewal applications should demonstrate a successful model of collaborative translational research and clinical studies using phase i/ii consortia, the clinical trials support unit (https://www.ctsu.org/public), the nci clinical trials network, pharmaceutical industry collaboration, and/or other types of vertical collaboration. describe the role of spore leaders in the successful hand-off of promising spore projects that were ready for the next step on the translational/clinical development pathway.new spore applications, which are not expected to have accomplished collaborative studies, and renewal applications are expected to set out plans for any future horizontal and vertical collaborations for direct translational projects that will eventually reach a clinical study and for translational projects in the reverse direction, such as projects in biomarker discovery, that will eventually require analytical and clinical validation. the plans for scientific collaborations may not be applicable to every research project.renewal applications should describe planned, ongoing, and/or completed horizontal collaborative projects and programs with set milestones and explain how the joint effort(s) will further the translational goals of the spore. in addition, the application should describe the efforts, arrangements, or the milestones toward, and the accomplishments of, any vertical collaborations where promising spore results (that are ready for the next step in the translational pathway continuum) are handed off to other nci-supported clinical trial mechanisms or to other governmental or non-governmental mechanisms. where appropriate, other types of collaborative arrangements to advance favorable results to the clinic should also be described. these arrangements might include separate multi-institutional grants or contracts specifically for the continued development of spore concepts; collaborative research and development agreements with industry; or any other types of collaborative work that ultimately benefits patients.progress report (for renewal applications)progress report publication list: include here publications and accepted manuscripts that cite the spore grant and have resulted from projects that are not being continued in this application. emphasize in bold font each listed publication that is a result of formal collaborations among different projects within the spore, with other spores, or with other funded nci networks, such as the nci clinical trials network, the early detection research network (edrn), or the experimental therapeutics clinical trials network (etctn). for publicly available citations, pmc submission identification numbers (pmcid), if required, should accompany the full reference. publications resulting from projects that are continuing in the proposed application should be included within each research project component section. copies of these publications should not be included as appendix material.resource sharing plan: individuals are required to comply with the instructions for the resource sharing plans as provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, with the following modification:all applications, regardless of the amount of direct costs requested for any one year, should address a data sharing plan.appendix:only limited items are allowed in the appendix. follow all instructions for the appendix as described in the sf424 (r&r) application guide; any instructions provided here are in addition to the sf424 (r&r) application guide instructions.phs human subjects and clinical trials information (overall)when involving human subjects research, clinical research, and/or nih-defined clinical trials follow all instructions for the phs human subjects and clinical trials information form in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, with the following additional instructions:if you answered “yes” to the question “are human subjects involved?” on the r&r other project information form, there must be at least one human subjects study record using the study record: phs human subjects and clinical trials information form or a delayed onset study record within the application. the study record(s) must be included in the component(s) where the work is being done, unless the same study spans multiple components. to avoid the creation of duplicate study records, a single study record with sufficient information for all involved components must be included in the overall component when the same study spans multiple components.study record: phs human subjects and clinical trials informationall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followeddelayed onset studynote: delayed onset does not apply to a study that can be described but will not start immediately (i.e., delayed start).all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followedall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.when preparing your application, use component type ‘admin core.’all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed, with the following additional instructions, as noted.sf424 (r&r) cover (administrative core)complete only the following fields:phs 398 cover page supplement (administrative core)enter human embryonic stem cells in each relevant component.research & related other project information (administrative core)human subjects: answer only the ‘are human subjects involved?’ and 'is the project exempt from federal regulations?’ questions.vertebrate animals: answer only the ‘are vertebrate animals used?’ question.project summary/abstract: provide overall goals/abstract/summary for the administrative core.project narrative: do not complete. note: assist screens will show an asterisk for this attachment indicating it is required. however, era systems only enforce this requirement in the overall component and applications will not receive an error if omitted in other components.facilities and other resources: if the spore will benefit from a funded institutional, local, state, or national resource/consortium, the funded resource should be described in the application.other attachments: the following "other attachments" should be included with the application. the filename provided for each attachment will be the name used for the bookmark in the application image.project /performance site location(s) (administrative core)list all performance sites that apply to the specific component.note: the project performance site form allows up to 300 sites, prior to using additional attachment for additional entries.research & related senior/key person profile (administrative core)budget (administrative core)budget forms appropriate for the specific component will be included in the application package.the spore pd/pi (or at least one of the spore pd/pis in multiple pd/pi applications) is expected to serve as core lead of the administrative core with minimum effort of 0.6 pm. if multiple pds/pis serve as co-core leads, each must devote a minimum effort of 0.6 pm. the minimum total effort for pd/pis on a spore application is 2.4 pm. however, if a spore is submitted as a multiple pd/pi application with three or more pd/pis, the required total minimum is reduced to 1.8 pm each. the minimum pm time commitment should be an aggregate of efforts in different components.budgets are also required for each consortium (subcontract) if they are part of the administrative core.budgets for costs to cover the travel of (up to) 10 investigators per spore to nci-sponsored meetings/workshops and nci-related activities, and allowable advocate-associated costs should be included. any costs related to advisory board meetings should be included. funds should not be requested for participation in grant review meetings, special emphasis panels, and other evaluation groups where reimbursement derives from other sources.the budget may include a request of up to $50,000 direct costs per year to be used as discretionary funds. a justification for the discretionary fund is not required.budget justification. in personnel justification section, discuss the time commitment of the core director(s) for the overall successful conduct of the spore.note: the r&r budget form included in many of the component types allows for up to 100 senior/key persons in section a and 100 equipment items in section c prior to using attachments for additional entries. all other sf424 (r&r) instructions apply.phs 398 research plan (administrative core)introduction to application: for resubmission and revision applications, an introduction to application is allowed for each component.specific aims: succinctly describe the list of specific objectives and goals of the administrative core.research strategy: succinctly address the following items:leadership: detail the plans for the organizational, administrative, and scientific management (both basic and clinical research) of the spore program. describe and/or diagram the chain of authority for decision-making and administration within the program. leadership with respect to initiating, facilitating, and implementing successful translational/clinical research collaborations should be discussed in the sc section of the overall component.administrative management: describe the plans for the fiscal management, clerical support, manuscript preparation, and compliance to nih public access policy (pmcid), and meeting organizations. quality control and communication aspects of the grant, particularly if more than one institution is involved in the spore should be discussed. a succession plan should be included which describes the process by which new leadership will be selected in the event that the spore pd(s)/pi(s) is no longer willing or able to lead the spore. a statement of commitment to attend nci sponsored meetings/workshops and other nci-related activities should also be included.integration within spore and the institution: provide a narrative how the spore integrates with existing cancer center/institutional resources (e.g., use of clinical data and safety management systems, biostatistics core, etc.) explain how coordination and communication among the different projects and programs, shared resources cores and participating institutions will be achieved at the overall program level. [note: spore projects are not required to interact with each other.]cancer patient population: each spore must document access to a substantial patient population for the organ site or group of related cancers that are the focus of the application and provide reasonable assurance that the patients and human specimens needed for translational research are readily available. if the appropriate patient population is not available at the applicant institution, a consortium agreement may be established with a different institution(s) to provide adequate access to clinical specimens and/or patients. describe the access to cancer patients and populations for conducting current and projected therapeutic, prevention, detection, and control research within the spore and collaborating institutions. for renewal applications, document the accomplished translational goals, including evidence of human subject enrollment on clinical/population research studies during the past funding period.data management: describe the development and use of bioinformatics capabilities of the spore as they relate to the cancer center, institution, or activities of other nih/nci initiatives for overall data management.planning and evaluation activities: discuss the planning and evaluation of spore activities, e.g., the evaluation of the translational research productivity of existing projects and shared resources core; the process for discontinuing projects and replacing them with more promising projects; and the initiation of activities in response to important translational research opportunities.describe the establishment of a required external advisory board (eab) and the recommended internal advisory board (iab), if proposed. if the eab/iab has already been established, list active members. if the eab has not yet been established, describe needed areas of expertise but do not contact new eab members until after peer review. in addition to the list, describe the role of the eab/iab in planning and evaluation processes.interaction between the spore and nci-designated cancer center: if a spore application originates from an institution that is supported by an nci cancer center support grant (ccsg; p30), the following are also expected:the spore must be an integral part of the cancer center and the lines of authority should be clearly indicated.letters of support: attach letters of support addressed to either the spore pd(s)/pi(s) or the nci and must be signed by the appropriate institution’s leaders (e.g., dean of the school of medicine, president, vice president for research).a letter of support from the institution must be attached addressing: the commitment to support the proposed spore, a plan describing how the institutional commitment will be established and sustained, how the institution will maintain accountability for promoting scientific excellence, and how the spore research effort will be given a high priority within the institution. the letter should describe the integration and synergies between the institutional resources and those of the overall spore and its components. the institutional commitment may come in the form of support for recruitment of scientific talent, providing protected time for physicians, assignment of specialized research space, cost sharing of resources, and/or other ways proposed by the applicant institution.a separate letter of support from the cancer center is required for host institutions associated with an nci-designated cancer center. the nci-designated cancer center letter of support should describe the integration and synergies between the cancer center resources and those of the overall spore and its components and delineate organizational relationships and responsibilities between the spore and the nci-designated cancer center. if the spore pd/pi does not hold a prominent position within the cancer center, the letter should describe the future authority of the spore pd/pi within the cancer center once the nci spore funding is obtained. whenever there is dependence on institute-wide core resources, a letter of agreement from the core director should be included.in the case of a spore that involves two or more institutions, the applicant institution must submit a formal written agreement(s) from the other participant organization(s) that states how the participating institution will commit to the spore. the primary institution (as well as any participating institutions) is strongly encouraged to demonstrate commitment by providing financial support to the developmental research and career enhancement programs on an awarded spore, as well as to other programmatic needs identified as high priority in the application.the institution(s) is encouraged to provide the spore pd/pi with discretionary funds. these funds can be used to support anticipated as well as unanticipated activities during the funding period.resource sharing plan: individuals are required to comply with the instructions for the resource sharing plans as provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, with the following modification:spores are expected to establish processes and infrastructure to support the meaningful sharing of data and information generated through the proposed research activities. spores should consult nci program staff as well as other spores to identify and apply consensus data standards, including data elements and vocabularies; to develop and implement quality assurance processes for the data; and to share these data through the appropriate nih/nci data repositories.all applications, regardless of the amount of direct costs requested for any one year, should address a data sharing plan.appendix:only limited items are allowed in the appendix. follow all instructions for the appendix as described in the sf424 (r&r) application guide; any instructions provided here are in addition to the sf424 (r&r) application guide instructions.phs human subjects and clinical trials information (administrative core)when involving human subjects research, clinical research, and/or nih-defined clinical trials follow all instructions for the phs human subjects and clinical trials information form in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, with the following additional instructions:if you answered “yes” to the question “are human subjects involved?” on the r&r other project information form, you must include at least one human subjects study record using the study record: phs human subjects and clinical trials information form or a delayed onset study record.study record: phs human subjects and clinical trials informationall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followeddelayed onset studynote: delayed onset does not apply to a study that can be described but will not start immediately (i.e., delayed start). all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.when preparing your application, use component type ‘project.’all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed, with the following additional instructions, as noted.complete only the following fields:enter human embryonic stem cells in each relevant component.project summary/abstract: provide overall goals/abstract/summary for the project.human subjects: answer only the ‘are human subjects involved?’ and 'is the project exempt from federal regulations?’ questions.vertebrate animals: answer only the ‘are vertebrate animals used?’ question.project narrative: state the relevance of the research project's activities to public health. note: assist screens will show an asterisk for this attachment indicating it is required. however, era systems only enforce this requirement in the overall component and applications will not receive an error if omitted in other components.other attachments: the following "other attachments" may be included with the project in order to aid in the review of applications. the filename provided for each attachment will be the name used for the bookmark in the application image.tables, graphs, figures, diagrams and charts relevant to the project.list all performance sites that apply to the specific project.note: the project performance site form allows up to 300 sites, prior to using additional attachment for additional entries.budget forms appropriate for the specific component will be included in the application package.each project must include both basic and applied/clinical co-leaders who will use their combined expertise to design and implement the project. each co-leader must commit individually to a minimum of 0.6 person months (pm) of effort. it is not necessary that the co-leaders commit an equal amount to the project.applications that include one or more qualified early detection, prevention, or population science (qualified epps) project(s) may request (with appropriate justification) additionally up to $120,000 direct costs/year per grant for each of the 5 years to support the project(s). the additional funds must be requested only in the budget(s) of qualified epps project(s). if an application has more than one epps project, the applicant may divide up to $120,000 among the epps projects. the additional funds should not be used to support non-epps projects but can be used toward cores that support the proposed epps project(s). the amount of epps funding allocated for each project and supporting core(s) must be specified in a paragraph entitled, epps project funding, on the project and core budget justification pages. for definitions of qualified epps projects, see key definitions.note: the r&r budget form included in many of the component types allows for up to 100 senior/key persons in section a and 100 equipment items in section c prior to using attachments for additional entries. all other sf424 (r&r) instructions apply.introduction to application: for resubmission and revision applications, an introduction to application is allowed for each component.specific aims: state concisely the translational goals of the proposed research project and summarize the expected translational outcomes(s), including the impact that the results of the research project will exert on the human disease site(s) involved. list succinctly the specific objectives of the research project, e.g., to test a stated hypothesis, to generate new hypotheses relevant to translational research, to solve a specific problem that has yet been unsolved in the field, to challenge an existing paradigm or clinical practice, to address any critical barrier(s) to progress in the field of translational cancer research, or to develop new technologies, detection methods, or biomarkers appropriate for testing in human cancer patients or populations at risk for cancer. at least one specific aim must address a human endpoint.research strategy: organize the research strategy, using the instructions given below, including the preliminary studies (for new projects) and progress report (for renewal applications). start each sub-section with the appropriate heading. experimental details should be cited using the bibliography and references cited section and need not be detailed in the research strategy.note: provide clear and specific cross-references to information in other sections of the application (such as the personal statement in the biosketches; cores; etc.) but do not duplicate information submitted elsewhere. in cases where the applicant wishes to provide a short video clip as a part of the application, instructions in not-od-12-141 and not-od-20-061 must be followed. briefly, a hyperlink must not be included in the application including research strategy; irrespective of number of videos, total duration must not exceed 5 minutes (maximum file size 25mb); contact responsible scientific review officer for video material submission at least 30 days prior to review. a few selected “still images/shots” with a brief description of the video must be incorporated into the application under preliminary studies or methods, or wherever it is most appropriate (within the research strategy page limit).only phase i and early phase ii clinical trials (generally up to 100 human subjects) may be supported by funds from the spore program. the number of human subjects in a population science or prevention study may exceed the 100 human subjects limit. spores are strongly encouraged to establish collaborative clinical trial activities across nci-funded mechanisms early in the development of projects that have clinical trials/studies as their goals.for multicenter, randomized phase ii therapeutic trials (>100 patients), spores wishing to collaborate as an inter-spore endeavor or with investigators funded by other grant mechanisms, should use the appropriate nci disease specific steering committees and their task forces (http://restructuringtrials.cancer.gov/steering/overview) working together to develop clinical concepts from early spore trials that could move forward, beyond spore grant support, to the nci clinical trials network (nctn). collaborative trials using this opportunity may also include correlative studies. however, correlative studies associated with an nctn trial may be supported within a spore project.it should be noted that a clinical trial may not be the goal of many spore projects. some projects will reach a human endpoint by using human specimens in the laboratory to expand upon observations made in the clinic, a process known as “reverse translation.” however, when biomarker studies are ready for clinical trials, spores are encouraged to collaborate with trans-nci clinical trial mechanisms to validate the biomarkers clinically.spore applications may include qualified early detection, prevention, or population science (epps) projects. if a particular component is proposed as qualified epps project, the applicant must provide a statement in the specific aims section of that component confirming its epps designation. specific programmatic requirements pertaining to qualified epps projects are described in the key definitions section. for each qualified epps project, there must be a laboratory element addressing relevant mechanistic aspects of human cancer biology and all aims must be epps-focused. the project may involve genetic, epidemiological, behavioral, social, applied, and surveillance studies. if an existing qualified epps project is discontinued before expiration of the spore project period and a substitute project is not qualified as an epps project, the grantee will lose the additional epps funds for the remaining term of the spore award.a) significanceb) innovationc) approachif a project contains a clinical trial, describe the study keeping the relevant review criteria in mind, but do not duplicate information in the required clinical trial documents (e.g., phs human subjects and clinical trials information form or irb-approved clinical trial protocol):preliminary studies for new projects: for new projects, include information on preliminary studies as part of the approach section. discuss the preliminary studies, data, and/or experience of the co-leaders of the project that are pertinent to the project. discuss any preliminary plans for vertical and/or horizontal collaborations in the sc section of the overall component.two-project option for renewal applications (optional): in addition to significance, innovation and approach, applicants should discuss data from the previous project period that supports the broader study proposed and how the questions addressed are best fit for a collaborative multi-institutional structure. discuss studies, data, and/or experience of the co-leaders of the project that are pertinent to the project. discuss any preliminary plans for vertical and/or horizontal collaborations in the sc section of the overall component.progress report for renewal applications: for renewal applications, provide a progress report as part of the approach section. provide the beginning and ending dates for the period covered since the last competitive review.summarize the specific aims of the previous project period and the importance of the findings, and emphasize the progress made toward their achievement. for completed aims, state whether the work will be continued outside the spore through another trans-nci funded mechanism or other non-nci funded mechanisms and refer to the overall component (sc section) where this will be more fully described. explain any significant changes to the specific aims and any new directions that will be taken.if applicable, provide a brief description on how the spore has complied with all nih data sharing policies.progress report publication list (for renewal applications): list all publications and accepted manuscripts resulting from previously funded projects that are being continued in the proposed spore application and which cite the spore. emphasize in bold font each listed publication that is the result of formal collaborations of this project with other spores or with other funded nci networks, such as the nci clinical trials network (nctn) or the early detection research network (edrn). for publicly available citations, pmc submission identification numbers (pmcid), if required, should accompany the full reference. copies of these publications should not be included as appendix material.letters of support: attach appropriate letters specific to the project detailing the nature and extent of participation. the letter of commitment from the host institution should describe the integration and synergies between the institutional resources and those of the spore project. if applicable, letters of commitment from subawardees and from collaborating institutions should also be provided.resource sharing plan: individuals are required to comply with the instructions for the resource sharing plans as provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, with the following modification:all applications, regardless of the amount of direct costs requested for any one year, should address a data sharing plan.appendix:only limited items are allowed in the appendix. follow all instructions for the appendix as described in the sf424 (r&r) application guide; any instructions provided here are in addition to the sf424 (r&r) application guide instructions.a copy of a draft or institutional review board (irb)-approved clinical trial protocol, along with informed consent forms, are required and must be included in the appendix if the trial is already underway or is anticipated to begin within the first year of the award. if the trial will be performed during the latter part of the grant term (i.e., delayed onset), submission of these items to nci program staff is required prior to the initiation of the trial.when involving human subjects research, clinical research, and/or nih-defined clinical trials follow all instructions for the phs human subjects and clinical trials information form in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, with the following additional instructions:if you answered “yes” to the question “are human subjects involved?” on the r&r other project information form, you must include at least one human subjects study record using the study record: phs human subjects and clinical trials information form or a delayed onset study record.study record: phs human subjects and clinical trials informationall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followeddelayed onset studynote: delayed onset does not apply to a study that can be described but will not start immediately (i.e., delayed start).all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.when preparing your application, use component type ‘core.’all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed, with the following additional instructions, as noted.sf424 (r&r) cover (shared resources core)complete only the following fields:phs 398 cover page supplement (shared resources core)enter human embryonic stem cells in each relevant component.research & related other project information (shared resources core)human subjects: answer only the ‘are human subjects involved?’ and 'is the project exempt from federal regulations?’ questions.vertebrate animals: answer only the ‘are vertebrate animals used?’ question.project summary/abstract: provide overall goals/abstract/summary for the shared resources coreproject narrative: do not complete. note: assist screens will show an asterisk for this attachment indicating it is required. however, era systems only enforce this requirement in the overall component and applications will not receive an error if omitted in other components.facilities and other resources:if the core will benefit from a funded institutional, local, state, or national resource/consortium, the funded resource should be described in the application.institutional commitment: discuss how the institutional commitment to the core will facilitate the research proposed. examples include providing support for recruitment of scientific talent, providing discretionary resources to the core director, assigning specialized research space, cost sharing of resources, and other assurances proposed by the applicant institution.other attachments: the following "other attachments" should be included with each core component in order to aid in the review of the application. the filename provided for each attachment will be the name used for the bookmark in the application image.project /performance site location(s) (shared resources core)list all performance sites that apply to the specific component.note: the project performance site form allows up to 300 sites, prior to using additional attachment for additional entries.research & related senior/key person profile (shared resources core)budget (shared resources core)budget forms appropriate for the specific component will be included in the application package.budgets are also required for each consortium (subcontract) if they are part of any cores.core director(s) must commit to a minimum of 0.6 pm of effort.note: the r&r budget form included in many of the component types allows for up to 100 senior/key persons in section a and 100 equipment items in section c prior to using attachments for additional entries. all other sf424 (r&r) instructions apply.phs 398 research plan (shared resources core)introduction to application: for resubmission and revision applications, an introduction to application is allowed for each component.specific aims: succinctly list the specific objectives and goals of the core.research strategy: if a proposed core appears to duplicate other facilities at the applicant institution(s), justification should be provided along with an explanation for why these institutional resources cannot be used for the spore activities.the application must address how related activities (e.g., specimen banking) are coordinated with the cancer center. prior to an award, nci will carefully review proposed spore core activities and budgets for overlap with ongoing ccsg cores. it should be the objective of all involved core directors to make sure that biospecimen-related, biostatistical, bioinformatics, and clinical activities are performed in a cost effective and coordinated manner.biospecimen/pathology core (required)describe the plans for collecting and distributing human cancer site-specific and/or related specimens, including fixed tissue, frozen tissue, paraffin blocks, slides, preserved cells, serum, plasma, urine, sputum samples, and other body fluids, as appropriate for the cancer site. describe the plans for achieving detailed annotation of parameters of collection and preservation that are pertinent to the pre-analytic and analytic considerations of potential spore studies as well as essential pathological, clinical, and family history information needed for conducting a wide range of translational research activities. describe quality measures used in this core. describe the informatics that will be used for tracking specimens, as well as linkage to clinical and follow-up data sets. networking with informatics systems at other spore sites is encouraged but is not required. address development, acquisition, storage, and usage of standardized reference specimens and materials, and any other services related to the analysis of specimens (e.g., tissue microdissection, immunohistochemistry) that will be provided. describe and justify any research activities to improve core services and how they will benefit the spore. describe integration with the cancer center biospecimen core resources and the clinical laboratory.provide a plan for prioritizing distribution of biospecimens to spore scientists and others, both inside and outside the parent/consortium institution(s), based on the merit of the proposed translational cancer research projects. renewal applications should also include a list of the studies and/or collaborations that benefited from this core, as well as a summary listing the numbers and types of specimens accrued and distributed during the previous funding period. if significant collaborations have emerged from this core, over and beyond the distribution of specimens, the data should be discussed in this section, but the details of the collaboration itself, including the strategy for moving the project through the translational research pathway to the clinic should be discussed in the sc section of the overall component.other cores (optional)additional shared resources cores (e.g., biostatistical, clinical, animal, etc.) may also be proposed as distinct components that are supportive of one or more of the research projects of the spore. these cores may also include other analytical or non-hypothesis-driven research activities designed to enhance a service. a biostatistical core is strongly encouraged.for all cores, describe the facilities and/or services that will be provided, and state the rationale for centralizing them in the core, rather than including them in individual projects. indicate why the shared resources core is an essential part of the spore, and how the proposed services will facilitate accomplishment of the proposed goals and objectives of the spore as a whole. address plans for prioritization of services (if necessary).if a clinical core is proposed, the application also should discuss how duplication in the reporting of clinical trial data to the nci will be avoided.for new applications, summarize the preliminary studies that support the ability of the core to provide the proposed services.for renewal applications, use of the core facilities and services by projects and developmental programs during the current funding period should also be clearly documented.progress report publication list (for renewal applications): list all publications and accepted manuscripts resulting from previously funded core(s) that are being continued in the proposed spore application and which cite the spore. emphasize in bold font each listed publication that is the result of formal collaborations between this core and other projects within the spore, with other spores, or with other funded nci networks, such as the nci clinical trials network (nctn) or the early detection research network (edrn). for publicly available citations, pmc submission identification numbers (pmcid), if required, should accompany the full reference. copies of these publications should not be included as appendix material.letters of support: attach appropriate letters relevant to each core detailing the nature and extent of participation.resource sharing plan: individuals are required to comply with the instructions for the resource sharing plans as provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, with the following modification:all applications, regardless of the amount of direct costs requested for any one year, should address a data sharing plan.appendix:only limited items are allowed in the appendix. follow all instructions for the appendix as described in the sf424 (r&r) application guide; any instructions provided here are in addition to the sf424 (r&r) application guide instructions.phs human subjects and clinical trials information (shared resources core)when involving human subjects research, clinical research, and/or nih-defined clinical trials follow all instructions for the phs human subjects and clinical trials information form in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, with the following additional instructions:if you answered “yes” to the question “are human subjects involved?” on the r&r other project information form, you must include at least one human subjects study record using the study record: phs human subjects and clinical trials information form or a delayed onset study record.study record: phs human subjects and clinical trials informationall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followeddelayed onset studynote: delayed onset does not apply to a study that can be described but will not start immediately (i.e., delayed start). all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followedwhen preparing your application, use component type ‘dev res prog.’all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed, with the following additional instructions, as noted.sf424 (r&r) cover (drp)complete only the following fields:phs 398 cover page supplement (drp)enter human embryonic stem cells in each relevant component.research & related other project information (drp)human subjects: answer only the ‘are human subjects involved?’ and 'is the project exempt from federal regulations?’ questions.vertebrate animals: answer only the ‘are vertebrate animals used?’ question.project summary/abstract: provide overall goals/abstract/summary for the drp.project narrative: do not complete. note: assist screens will show an asterisk for this attachment indicating it is required. however, era systems only enforce this requirement in the overall component and applications will not receive an error if omitted in other components.facilities and other resources: institutional commitment: discuss how the institutional commitment to the drp, if provided, will specifically facilitate the research proposed.other attachments: the following "other attachments" may be included in order to aid in the review of applications. the filename provided for each attachment will be the name used for the bookmark in the application image.tables, graphs, figures, diagrams and charts relevant to the drp component.project /performance site location(s) (drp)list all performance sites that apply to the specific component.note: the project performance site form allows up to 300 sites, prior to using additional attachment for additional entries.research & related senior/key person profile (drp)budget (drp)budget forms appropriate for the specific component will be included in the application package.budgets are also required for each consortium (subcontract) if they are part of the drp.drp director(s) must commit to a minimum of 0.3 pm of effort.the drp, as a required component of a spore, must be maintained throughout the entire term of the grant. a minimum commitment of $50,000 direct costs per year from spore funds per year must be proposed and maintained for a drp. the nci will monitor the activities of the drp during non-competitive years to ensure that the nci commitment is being maintained. drp funds should be used for research activities and cannot be used for the purchase of any large equipment.each application may request an additional $25,000 direct costs/year for each of the 5 years to support one project led by an investigator from an underrepresented racial and ethnic group (see key definitions). the additional funds must be requested in the budget of the drp in the competing application and must be specified in a paragraph entitled, additional drp project funding, on the drp budget justification page. the additional $25,000 from the nci should not be used to support projects led by investigators from non-underrepresented racial and ethnic groups.note: the r&r budget form included in many of the component types allows for up to 100 senior/key persons in section a and 100 equipment items in section c prior to using attachments for additional entries. all other sf424 (r&r) instructions apply.phs 398 research plan (drp)introduction to application: for resubmission and revision applications, an introduction to application is allowed for each component.specific aims: describe the specific objectives and goals of the drp.research strategy: clearly describe the process for solicitation of drp projects and the institutional review process for evaluating and funding pilot and/or collaborative projects that generate feasibility data. these funds are intended to remain flexible and to support studies of 2 years or less. the expectation is that successful feasibility studies that have translational potential will replace full projects that are not progressing satisfactorily toward their translational research objectives within the spore or projects that have been completed or will be the subject of a new grant application.new applications should describe the processes to be used to set up the drp within the spore and the process to be established for the continuous reviewing and funding of the pilot and collaborative projects based on quality and importance to the overall spore goal. new applicants may also supply a short description of eligible projects as examples. renewal applicants should include their track records of funding pilot projects, methods of monitoring and assessing ongoing pilot projects, and short descriptions of other potentially eligible projects.progress report publication list (for renewal applications): list all publications and accepted manuscripts resulting from the previously funded drp component and which cite the spore grant. emphasize in bold font each listed publication that is the result of formal collaborations between the drp and other projects within the spore, with other spores, or with other funded nci networks, such as the nci clinical trials network (nctn) or the early detection research network (edrn). for publicly available citations, pmc submission identification numbers (pmcid), if required, should accompany the full reference. copies of these publications should not be included as appendix material.letters of support: attach appropriate letters relevant to the drp detailing the nature and extent of participation.resource sharing plan: individuals are required to comply with the instructions for the resource sharing plans as provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, with the following modification:all applications, regardless of the amount of direct costs requested for any one year, should address a data sharing plan.appendix:only limited items are allowed in the appendix. follow all instructions for the appendix as described in the sf424 (r&r) application guide; any instructions provided here are in addition to the sf424 (r&r) application guide instructions.phs human subjects and clinical trials information (drp)when involving human subjects research, clinical research, and/or nih-defined clinical trials follow all instructions for the phs human subjects and clinical trials information form in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, with the following additional instructions:if you answered “yes” to the question “are human subjects involved?” on the r&r other project information form, you must include at least one human subjects study record using the study record: phs human subjects and clinical trials information form or a delayed onset study record.study record: phs human subjects and clinical trials informationall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followeddelayed onset studynote: delayed onset does not apply to a study that can be described but will not start immediately (i.e., delayed start). all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followedwhen preparing your application, use component type ‘career enh prog.’all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed, with the following additional instructions, as noted.sf424 (r&r) cover (cep)complete only the following fields:phs 398 cover page supplement (cep)enter human embryonic stem cells in each relevant component.research & related other project information (cep)human subjects: answer only the ‘are human subjects involved?’ and 'is the project exempt from federal regulations?’ questions.vertebrate animals: answer only the ‘are vertebrate animals used?’ question.project summary/abstract: provide overall goals/abstract/summary for the cep.project narrative: do not complete. note: assist screens will show an asterisk for this attachment indicating it is required. however, era systems only enforce this requirement in the overall component and applications will not receive an error if omitted in other components.facilities and other resources: institutional commitment: discuss how the institutional commitment to the cep, if provided, will specifically facilitate the research proposed.other attachments: the following "other attachments" may be included in order to aid in the review of applications. the filename provided for each attachment will be the name used for the bookmark in the application image.tables, graphs, figures, diagrams and charts relevant to the cep component.project /performance site location(s) (cep)list all performance sites that apply to the specific component.note: the project performance site form allows up to 300 sites, prior to using additional attachment for additional entries.research & related senior/key person profile (cep)budget (cep)budget forms appropriate for the specific component will be included in the application package.budgets are also required for each consortium (subcontract) if they are part of the cep.cep director(s) must commit to a minimum of 0.3 pm of effort.the cep, as a required component of a spore, must be maintained throughout the entire term of the grant. a minimum commitment of $50,000 direct costs per year from nci spore funds must be proposed and maintained for cep projects. these funds are restricted to the cep. the nci will monitor the activities of the cep during non-competitive years to ensure that the nci commitment is being maintained. cep funds should be used to support research activities, including partial salary support for the candidate, research personnel, supplies, travel, and/or other expenses, and cannot be used for the purchase of any large equipment.note: the r&r budget form included in many of the component types allows for up to 100 senior/key persons in section a and 100 equipment items in section c prior to using attachments for additional entries. all other sf424 (r&r) instructions apply.phs 398 research plan (cep)introduction to application: for resubmission and revision applications, an introduction to application is allowed for each component.specific aims: describe the specific objectives and goals of the cep.research strategy: clearly describe the plans for this program including the policies, criteria, and processes for selecting candidates (e.g., advanced post-doctoral fellows who are ready to transition to a faculty position within one year, junior faculty, and established investigators). special efforts should be made to include women, individuals from underrepresented racial and ethnic groups, as well as individuals with disabilities. the plan should include the number and types of positions that will be made available, the criteria for eligibility and selection of candidates, a description of the selection process, and the process for mentoring or advising junior level candidates or monitoring the progress of all candidates. new applicants should provide short descriptions of potential candidates, as well as the names and research activities of mentors/advisors. renewal applicants should provide this information in addition to their past performance on recruiting women, individuals from underrepresented racial and ethnic groups, as well as individuals with disabilities, and the track record of awardees supported on the spore. support of a cep awardee should not exceed 2 years.similar to the drp, outstanding career enhancement projects may be promoted to full projects to replace those that are not meeting their translational research objectives within the spore or projects that have been completed. successful cep awardees may be provided continued support as project co-leaders of the promoted projects.progress report publication list (for renewal applications): list all publications and accepted manuscripts resulting from the previously funded cep component and which cite the spore grant. emphasize in bold font each listed publication that is the result of formal collaborations between the cep and other projects within the spore, with other spores, or with other funded nci networks, such as the nci clinical trials network (formerly known as cooperative groups) or the early detection research network (edrn). for publicly available citations, pmc submission identification numbers (pmcid), if required, should accompany the full reference. copies of these publications should not be included as appendix material.letters of support: attach appropriate letters specific to the cep detailing the nature and extent of support and/or participation.resource sharing plan: individuals are required to comply with the instructions for the resource sharing plans as provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, with the following modification:all applications, regardless of the amount of direct costs requested for any one year, should address a data sharing plan.appendix:only limited items are allowed in the appendix. follow all instructions for the appendix as described in the sf424 (r&r) application guide; any instructions provided here are in addition to the sf424 (r&r) application guide instructions.phs human subjects and clinical trials information (cep)when involving human subjects research, clinical research, and/or nih-defined clinical trials follow all instructions for the phs human subjects and clinical trials information form in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, with the following additional instructions:if you answered “yes” to the question “are human subjects involved?” on the r&r other project information form, you must include at least one human subjects study record using the study record: phs human subjects and clinical trials information form or a delayed onset study record.study record: phs human subjects and clinical trials informationall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followeddelayed onset studynote: delayed onset does not apply to a study that can be described but will not start immediately (i.e., delayed start). all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followedsee part 1. section iii.1 for information regarding the requirement for obtaining a unique entity identifier and for completing and maintaining active registrations in system for award management (sam), nato commercial and government entity (ncage) code (if applicable), era commons, and grants.gov.part i. overview information contains information about key dates and times. applicants are encouraged to submit applications before the due date to ensure they have time to make any application corrections that might be necessary for successful submission. when a submission date falls on a weekend or federal holiday, the application deadline is automatically extended to the next business day.organizations must submit applications to grants.gov (the online portal to find and apply for grants across all federal agencies) using assist or other electronic submission systems. applicants must then complete the submission process by tracking the status of the application in the era commons, nih’s electronic system for grants administration. nih and grants.gov systems check the application against many of the application instructions upon submission. errors must be corrected, and a changed/corrected application must be submitted to grants.gov on or before the application due date and time. if a changed/corrected application is submitted after the deadline, the application will be considered late. applications that miss the due date and time are subjected to the nih policy on late application submission.applicants are responsible for viewing their application before the due date in the era commons to ensure accurate and successful submission.information on the submission process and a definition of on-time submission are provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.this initiative is not subject to intergovernmental review.all nih awards are subject to the terms and conditions, cost principles, and other considerations described in the nih grants policy statement.pre-award costs are allowable only as described in the nih grants policy statement.applications must be submitted electronically following the instructions described in the sf424 (r&r) application guide. paper applications will not be accepted.for information on how your application will be automatically assembled for review and funding consideration after submission go to: http://grants.nih.gov/grants/electronicreceipt/files/electronic_multi-project_application_image_assembly.pdf.applicants must complete all required registrations before the application due date. section iii. eligibility information contains information about registration.for assistance with your electronic application or for more information on the electronic submission process, visit how to apply – application guide. if you encounter a system issue beyond your control that threatens your ability to complete the submission process on-time, you must follow the dealing with system issues guidance. for assistance with application submission, contact the application submission contacts in section vii.important reminders:all pd(s)/pi(s) and component project leads must include their era commons id in the credential field of the senior/key person profile component of the sf424(r&r) application package. failure to register in the commons and to include a valid pd/pi commons id in the credential field will prevent the successful submission of an electronic application to nih.the applicant organization must ensure that the duns number it provides on the application is the same number used in the organization’s profile in the era commons and for the system for award management (sam). additional information may be found in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.see more tips for avoiding common errors.upon receipt, applications will be evaluated for completeness and compliance with application instructions by the center for scientific review and responsiveness by components of participating organizations, nih. applications that are incomplete, non-compliant and/or nonresponsive will not be reviewed.the requests by nih intramural scientists will be limited to the incremental costs required for participation. as such, these requests will not include any salary and related fringe benefits for career, career conditional or other federal employees (civilian or uniformed service) with permanent appointments under existing position ceilings or any costs related to administrative or facilities support (equivalent to facilities and administrative or f&a costs). these costs may include salary for staff to be specifically hired under a temporary appointment for the project, consultant costs, equipment, supplies, travel, and other items typically listed under other expenses. applicants should indicate the number of person-months devoted to the project, even if no funds are requested for salary and fringe benefits.if selected, appropriate funding will be provided by the nih intramural program. nih intramural scientists will participate in this program as pds/pis in accord with the terms and conditions provided in this foa. intellectual property will be managed in accord with established policy of the nih in compliance with executive order 10096, as amended, 45 cfr part 7; patent rights for inventions developed in nih facilities are nih property unless nih waives its rights.should an extramural application include the collaboration with an intramural scientist, no funds for the support of the intramural scientist may be requested in the application. the intramural scientist may submit a separate request for intramural funding as described above.applicants are required to follow the instructions for post-submission materials, as described in the policy. any instructions provided here are in addition to the instructions in the policy.note: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023, the data sharing plan and genomic data sharing plan (gds) as part of the resource sharing plan will not be evaluated at time of review.only the review criteria described below will be considered in the review process. applications submitted to the nih in support of the nih mission are evaluated for scientific and technical merit through the nih peer review system.in addition, for applications involving clinical trials: a proposed clinical trial application may include study design, methods, and intervention that are not by themselves innovative but address important questions or unmet needs. additionally, the results of the clinical trial may indicate that further clinical development of the intervention is unwarranted or lead to new avenues of scientific investigation.reviewers will provide an overall impact score to reflect their assessment of the likelihood for the spore as a whole to exert a sustained, powerful influence on the research field(s) involved, in consideration of the following review criteria and additional review criteria (as applicable for the project proposed).reviewers will consider, but not individually score, each of the review criteria below, taking into account the merit of research projects, clinical trials, population science studies, cores, developmental research and career enhancement programs, and scientific collaborations in the determination of scientific merit of the spore grant. an application does not need to be strong in all categories to be judged likely to have major scientific impact. for example, a spore that by its nature is not innovative may be essential to advance a field.does the spore address an important problem or a critical barrier to progress in the field? is the prior research that serves as the key support for the proposed project rigorous? if the aims of the spore are achieved, how will scientific knowledge, technical capability, and/or clinical practice be improved? how will successful completion of the aims change the concepts, methods, technologies, treatments, services, or preventative interventions that drive this field?in addition, for applications involving clinical trialsare the scientific rationale and need for a clinical trial to test the proposed hypothesis or intervention well supported by preliminary data, clinical and/or preclinical studies, or information in the literature or knowledge of biological mechanisms? for trials focusing on clinical or public health endpoints, is this clinical trial necessary for testing the safety, efficacy or effectiveness of an intervention that could lead to a change in clinical practice, community behaviors or health care policy? for trials focusing on mechanistic, behavioral, physiological, biochemical, or other biomedical endpoints, is this trial needed to advance scientific understanding?are the pd(s)/pi(s), collaborators, and other researchers well suited to the spore? if early stage investigators or those in the early stages of independent careers, do they have appropriate experience and training? if established, have they demonstrated an ongoing record of accomplishments that have advanced their field(s)? if the project is collaborative or multi-pd/pi, do the investigators have complementary and integrated expertise; are their leadership approach, governance and organizational structure appropriate for the project?in addition, for applications involving clinical trialswith regard to the proposed leadership for the project, do the pd/pi(s) and key personnel have the expertise, experience, and ability to organize, manage and implement the proposed clinical trial and meet milestones and timelines? do they have appropriate expertise in study coordination, data management and statistics? for a multicenter trial, is the organizational structure appropriate and does the application identify a core of potential center investigators and staffing for a coordinating center?does the application challenge and seek to shift current research or clinical practice paradigms by utilizing novel theoretical concepts, approaches or methodologies, instrumentation, or interventions? are the concepts, approaches or methodologies, instrumentation, or interventions novel to one field of research or novel in a broad sense? is a refinement, improvement, or new application of theoretical concepts, approaches or methodologies, instrumentation, or interventions proposed?in addition, for applications involving clinical trialsdoes the design/research plan include innovative elements, as appropriate, that enhance its sensitivity, potential for information or potential to advance scientific knowledge or clinical practice?are the overall strategy, methodology, and analyses well-reasoned and appropriate to accomplish the specific aims of the spore? have investigators included plans to address weaknesses in the rigor of prior research that serves as the key support for the proposed project? have the investigators presented strategies to ensure a robust and unbiased approach, as appropriate for the work proposed? are potential problems, alternative strategies, and benchmarks for success presented? if the project is in the early stages of development, will the strategy establish feasibility and will particularly risky aspects be managed? have the investigators presented adequate plans to address relevant biological variables, such as sex, for studies in vertebrate animals or human subjects?if the spore involves human subjects and/or nih-defined clinical research, are the plans to address: 1) the protection of human subjects from research risks, and 2) inclusion (or exclusion) of individuals on the basis of sex/gender, race, and ethnicity, as well as the inclusion or exclusion of individuals of all ages (including children and older adults), justified in terms of the scientific goals and research strategy proposed?in addition, for applications involving clinical trialsdoes the application adequately address the following, if applicable:study designis the study design justified and appropriate to address primary and secondary outcome variable(s)/endpoints that will be clear, informative and relevant to the hypothesis being tested? is the scientific rationale/premise of the study based on previously well-designed preclinical and/or clinical research? given the methods used to assign participants and deliver interventions, is the study design adequately powered to answer the research question(s), test the proposed hypothesis/hypotheses, and provide interpretable results? is the trial appropriately designed to conduct the research efficiently? are the study populations (size, gender, age, demographic group), proposed intervention arms/dose, and duration of the trial, appropriate and well justified?are potential ethical issues adequately addressed? is the process for obtaining informed consent or assent appropriate? is the eligible population available? are the plans for recruitment outreach, enrollment, retention, handling dropouts, missed visits, and losses to follow-up appropriate to ensure robust data collection? are the planned recruitment timelines feasible and is the plan to monitor accrual adequate? has the need for randomization (or not), masking (if appropriate), controls, and inclusion/exclusion criteria been addressed? are differences addressed, if applicable, in the intervention effect due to sex/gender and race/ethnicity?are the plans to standardize, assure quality of, and monitor adherence to, the trial protocol and data collection or distribution guidelines appropriate? is there a plan to obtain required study agent(s)? does the application propose to use existing available resources, as applicable?data management and statistical analysisare planned analyses and statistical approach appropriate for the proposed study design and methods used to assign participants and deliver interventions? are the procedures for data management and quality control of data adequate at clinical site(s) or at center laboratories, as applicable? have the methods for standardization of procedures for data management to assess the effect of the intervention and quality control been addressed? is there a plan to complete data analysis within the proposed period of the award?will the scientific environment in which the work will be done contribute to the probability of success? are the institutional support, equipment and other physical resources available to the investigators adequate for the project proposed? will the project benefit from unique features of the scientific environment, subject populations, or collaborative arrangements?in addition, for applications involving clinical trialsif proposed, are the administrative, data coordinating, enrollment and laboratory/testing centers, appropriate for the trial proposed?does the application adequately address the capability and ability to conduct the trial at the proposed site(s) or centers? are the plans to add or drop enrollment centers, as needed, appropriate?if international site(s) is/are proposed, does the application adequately address the complexity of executing the clinical trial?if multi-sites/centers, is there evidence of the ability of the individual site or center to: (1) enroll the proposed numbers; (2) adhere to the protocol; (3) collect and transmit data in an accurate and timely fashion; and, (4) operate within the proposed organizational structure?the scientific collaboration section is part of the overall component. reviewers will assign a numerical score to only this section of the overall based on the following criteria.reviewers will consider each of the review criteria below in the determination of scientific merit and give a separate score for each. a project does not need to be strong in all categories to be judged likely to have major scientific impact. for example, a project that by its nature is not innovative may be essential to advance a field. an assigned reviewer will give a criterion score for each of the following five criteria for the individual research projects. however, criterion scoring is not used for the other spore components.significancedoes the project address an important translational research goal or barrier for this particular organ site, theme or related group of cancers? is the prior research that serves as the basis for the proposed project rigorous? if the aims of the project are achieved, how will scientific knowledge, technical capability, and/or clinical practice be improved? how will successful completion of the aims change the concepts, methods, technologies, treatments, services, or preventive interventions that drive this field?in addition, for applications involving clinical trialsare the scientific rationale and need for a clinical trial to test the proposed hypothesis or intervention well supported by preliminary data, clinical and/or preclinical studies, or information in the literature or knowledge of biological mechanisms? for trials focusing on clinical or public health endpoints, is this clinical trial necessary for testing the safety, efficacy or effectiveness of an intervention that could lead to a change in clinical practice, community behaviors or health care policy? for trials focusing on mechanistic, behavioral, physiological, biochemical, or other biomedical endpoints, is this trial needed to advance scientific understanding?investigatorsare the project co-leaders, collaborators, and other researchers well suited to the project? is there adequate evidence of co-leadership of the project by basic and applied/clinical investigators in the conception, design, and proposed implementation of the project? if investigators are in the early stages of independent careers or are new to translational cancer research, do they have appropriate experience and training? if established, have they demonstrated an ongoing record of accomplishments that have advanced their field(s)? if the project is collaborative with other groups, do the investigators have complementary and integrated expertise; are their leadership approaches, governance and organizational structures appropriate for the project?in addition, for applications involving clinical trialswith regard to the proposed leadership for the project, do the pd/pi(s) and key personnel have the expertise, experience, and ability to organize, manage and implement the proposed clinical trial and meet milestones and timelines? do they have appropriate expertise in study coordination, data management and statistics? for a multicenter trial, is the organizational structure appropriate and does the application identify a core of potential center investigators and staffing for a coordinating center?innovationdoes the project challenge and seek to shift current research or clinical practice paradigms by utilizing novel theoretical concepts, approaches or methodologies, instrumentation, or interventions in the context of translational research? are the concepts, approaches or methodologies, instrumentation, or interventions novel to one field of research? are the concepts novel in a broad sense? is a refinement, improvement, or new application of theoretical concepts, approaches or methodologies, instrumentation, or interventions proposed?in addition, for applications involving clinical trialsdoes the design/research plan include innovative elements, as appropriate, that enhance its sensitivity, potential for information or potential to advance scientific knowledge or clinical practice?approachare the overall strategy, methodology, and analyses well-reasoned and appropriate to accomplish the specific aims of the project? have investigators included plans to address weaknesses in the rigor of prior research that serves as the key support for the proposed project? have the investigators presented strategies to ensure a robust and unbiased approach, as appropriate for the work proposed? are potential problems, alternative strategies, and benchmarks for success presented? if the project is in the early stages of development, will the strategy establish feasibility and will particularly risky aspects be managed? have the investigators presented adequate plans to address relevant biological variables, such as sex, for studies in vertebrate animals or human subjects?specific for this foa: does the application adequately address the following, if applicable:is the research likely to achieve the proposed human endpoint within the 5-year project period? is it likely that all the aims will be completed within the project period? if the project is ongoing and has changed research direction, is there appropriate rationale for the new approach? are the plans for (1) protection of human subjects from research risks and (2) inclusion of underrepresented populations (including race and ethnicity), women, and individuals of all ages (including children and older adults) justified in terms of the scientific goals and research strategy proposed? note: aspects of collaboration unrelated to scientific data will be reviewed in the scientific collaboration section (overall component) and not in the spore research projects section.in addition, for applications involving clinical trialsdoes the application adequately address the following, if applicable:study designis the study design justified and appropriate to address primary and secondary outcome variable(s)/endpoints that will be clear, informative and relevant to the hypothesis being tested? is the scientific rationale/premise of the study based on previously well-designed preclinical and/or clinical research? given the methods used to assign participants and deliver interventions, is the study design adequately powered to answer the research question(s), test the proposed hypothesis/hypotheses, and provide interpretable results? is the trial appropriately designed to conduct the research efficiently? are the study populations (size, gender, age, demographic group), proposed intervention arms/dose, and duration of the trial, appropriate and well justified?are potential ethical issues adequately addressed? is the process for obtaining informed consent or assent appropriate? is the eligible population available? are the plans for recruitment outreach, enrollment, retention, handling dropouts, missed visits, and losses to follow-up appropriate to ensure robust data collection? are the planned recruitment timelines feasible and is the plan to monitor accrual adequate? has the need for randomization (or not), masking (if appropriate), controls, and inclusion/exclusion criteria been addressed? are differences addressed, if applicable, in the intervention effect due to sex/gender and race/ethnicity?are the plans to standardize, assure quality of, and monitor adherence to, the trial protocol and data collection or distribution guidelines appropriate? is there a plan to obtain required study agent(s)? does the application propose to use existing available resources, as applicable?data management and statistical analysisare planned analyses and statistical approach appropriate for the proposed study design and methods used to assign participants and deliver interventions? are the procedures for data management and quality control of data adequate at clinical site(s) or at center laboratories, as applicable? have the methods for standardization of procedures for data management to assess the effect of the intervention and quality control been addressed? is there a plan to complete data analysis within the proposed period of the award?environmentwill the scientific environment in which the work will be done contribute to the probability of success? are the institutional support, equipment and other physical resources available to the investigators adequate for the project proposed? will the project benefit from unique features of the scientific environment, subject populations, or collaborative arrangements?specific for this foa: does the application adequately address the following, if applicable:in the case of multiple institutions involved in a single spore, is there an adequate plan for communication among investigators to achieve the goals of the grant? is there evidence of institutional support? is there evidence of effective use of spore cores?in addition, for applications involving clinical trialsif proposed, are the administrative, data coordinating, enrollment and laboratory/testing centers, appropriate for the trial proposed?does the application adequately address the capability and ability to conduct the trial at the proposed site(s) or centers? are the plans to add or drop enrollment centers, as needed, appropriate?if international site(s) is/are proposed, does the application adequately address the complexity of executing the clinical trial?if multi-sites/centers, is there evidence of the ability of the individual site or center to: (1) enroll the proposed numbers; (2) adhere to the protocol; (3) collect and transmit data in an accurate and timely fashion; and, (4) operate within the proposed organizational structure?review criteria for administrative corereviewers will assign a numerical score based on the following criteria (these criteria do not receive separate scores).leadershipare the scientific qualifications, involvement, leadership and time commitment of the co-leaders sufficient for requirements of the proposed spore? (leadership for collaborations will be reviewed in the scientific collaboration section, now part of the overall component.)administrative managementdoes the plan for the administrative core adequately address how the spore will be managed administratively including the fiscal and data operations? are the communication aspects of the spore facilitated by this core adequately addressed, particularly if there is more than one institution involved in the proposed research? is there evidence that appropriate clerical and administrative personnel and quality controls are in place for the smooth running and total integration of the spore? are the qualifications, experience, and commitment of the shared resources core director(s) and other key personnel adequate and appropriate for providing the proposed facility or services? will this core provide adequate meeting/travel support, and support for the advisory boards? are the qualifications, experience, and commitment of the core director(s) and other key personnel adequate? does the proposed plan include a succession plan for spore leadership that could be enacted in the event that the spore pd(s)/pi(s) is no longer willing or able to lead the spore? if patient advocates are included, are their activities appropriate to the goals of the spore?institutional commitmentis the institutional commitment for facilitating the research objectives of the spore (e.g., through special facilities, recruitments, discretionary funding, supplemental resources for cep and drp) sufficiently documented?integration of the spore within the institutionare the activities of spore projects and proposed cores well integrated into the institution? does the entire spore integrate with the existing cancer center/institute (e.g., use of clinical data and safety management systems, biostatistical and other cores, etc.)? is there evidence of, or plans for, coordination and communication across all components of the spore and among all participating institutions at the overall spore level?cancer patient populationis the access to patients and populations for conducting current and projected therapeutic, prevention, detection, and control research adequate to ensure likely success of the spore?data managementare the plans for and/or track record of the overall data management and/or bioinformatics capabilities of the spore as they are related to the cancer center, institution, and/or activities of other nih/nci initiatives sufficient for the requirements of the proposed spore?planning and evaluation of activitiesare the plans for and/or track record of evaluating the translational research productivity of existing projects and cores adequate for the requirements of the proposed spore? are the plans for and/or track record of use of advice from internal and external advisors sufficient? for renewal applications, is there evidence that the flexibility available to the spore has been used effectively?review criteria for shared resources core(s)do the shared resources core(s) provide essential functions or services for at least one project?biospecimen/pathology coreinvestigatorapproachenvironmentother coresinvestigatorapproachenvironmentreview criteria for the developmental research program (drp)reviewers will assign a numerical score based on adherence to the following criteria:review criteria for the career enhancement program (cep)reviewers will assign a numerical score based on the following criteria:as applicable for the project proposed, reviewers will evaluate the following additional items while determining scientific and technical merit, and in providing an overall impact score, but will not give separate scores for these items. study timeline and milestonesspecific to applications proposing clinical trialsis the study timeline described in detail, taking into account start-up activities, the anticipated rate of enrollment, and planned follow-up assessment? is the projected timeline feasible and well justified? does the project incorporate efficiencies and utilize existing resources (e.g., ctsas, practice-based research networks, electronic medical records, administrative database, or patient registries) to increase the efficiency of participant enrollment and data collection, as appropriate?are potential challenges and corresponding solutions discussed (e.g., strategies that can be implemented in the event of enrollment shortfalls)?for research that involves human subjects but does not involve one of the categories of research that are exempt under 45 cfr part 46, the committee will evaluate the justification for involvement of human subjects and the proposed protections from research risk relating to their participation according to the following five review criteria: 1) risk to subjects, 2) adequacy of protection against risks, 3) potential benefits to the subjects and others, 4) importance of the knowledge to be gained, and 5) data and safety monitoring for clinical trials.for research that involves human subjects and meets the criteria for one or more of the categories of research that are exempt under 45 cfr part 46, the committee will evaluate: 1) the justification for the exemption, 2) human subjects involvement and characteristics, and 3) sources of materials. for additional information on review of the human subjects section, please refer to the guidelines for the review of human subjects.when the proposed project involves human subjects and/or nih-defined clinical research, the committee will evaluate the proposed plans for the inclusion (or exclusion) of individuals on the basis of sex/gender, race, and ethnicity, as well as the inclusion (or exclusion) of individuals of all ages (including children and older adults) to determine if it is justified in terms of the scientific goals and research strategy proposed. for additional information on review of the inclusion section, please refer to the guidelines for the review of inclusion in clinical research.the committee will evaluate the involvement of live vertebrate animals as part of the scientific assessment according to the following criteria: (1) description of proposed procedures involving animals, including species, strains, ages, sex, and total number to be used; (2) justifications for the use of animals versus alternative models and for the appropriateness of the species proposed; (3) interventions to minimize discomfort, distress, pain and injury; and (4) justification for euthanasia method if not consistent with the avma guidelines for the euthanasia of animals. reviewers will assess the use of chimpanzees as they would any other application proposing the use of vertebrate animals. for additional information on review of the vertebrate animals section, please refer to the worksheet for review of the vertebrate animal section.reviewers will assess whether materials or procedures proposed are potentially hazardous to research personnel and/or the environment, and if needed, determine whether adequate protection is proposed.for resubmissions, the committee will evaluate the application as now presented, taking into consideration the responses to comments from the previous scientific review group and changes made to the project.for renewals, the committee will consider the progress made in the last funding period.suggestions for renewal applications are included within each of the spore sections above. the main aspects to address include the following points:additional review criteria for renewal applications opting for two research projectsdo the proposed continuation projects significantly expand the translational scope, magnitude and consequence of the research goals of the projects funded in the previous grant cycle? is there appropriate justification for the role of each participating institution? are the collaborations between institutions necessary to achieve the specific aims of the project(s)? when compared to projects funded in the previous grant cycle, are additional technologies and/or disciplines proposed?for revisions, the committee will consider the appropriateness of the proposed expansion of the scope of the project. if the revision application relates to a specific line of investigation presented in the original application that was not recommended for approval by the committee, then the committee will consider whether the responses to comments from the previous scientific review group are adequate and whether substantial changes are clearly evident.as applicable for the project proposed, reviewers will consider each of the following items, but will not give scores for these items, and should not consider them in providing an overall impact score.not applicable.reviewers will assess the information provided in this section of the application, including 1) the select agent(s) to be used in the proposed research, 2) the registration status of all entities where select agent(s) will be used, 3) the procedures that will be used to monitor possession use and transfer of select agent(s), and 4) plans for appropriate biosafety, biocontainment, and security of the select agent(s).reviewers will comment on whether the following resource sharing plans, or the rationale for not sharing the following types of resources, are reasonable: 1) data sharing plan; 2) sharing model organisms; and 3) genomic data sharing plan .for projects involving key biological and/or chemical resources, reviewers will comment on the brief plans proposed for identifying and ensuring the validity of those resources.reviewers will consider whether the budget and the requested period of support are fully justified and reasonable in relation to the proposed research.applications will be evaluated for scientific and technical merit by (an) appropriate scientific review group(s), convened by nci in accordance with nih peer review policy and procedures, using the stated review criteria. assignment to a scientific review group will be shown in the era commons.as part of the scientific peer review, all applications:applications will be assigned on the basis of established phs referral guidelines to the appropriate nih institute or center. . following initial peer review, recommended applications will receive a second level of review by the national cancer advisory board. the following will be considered in making funding decisions:after the peer review of the application is completed, the pd/pi will be able to access his or her summary statement (written critique) via the era commons. refer to part 1 for dates for peer review, advisory council review, and earliest start date.information regarding the disposition of applications is available in the nih grants policy statement.if the application is under consideration for funding, nih will request "just-in-time" information from the applicant as described in the nih grants policy statement.a formal notification in the form of a notice of award (noa) will be provided to the applicant organization for successful applications. the noa signed by the grants management officer is the authorizing document and will be sent via email to the grantee’s business official.awardees must comply with any funding restrictions described in section iv.5. funding restrictions. selection of an application for award is not an authorization to begin performance. any costs incurred before receipt of the noa are at the recipient's risk. these costs may be reimbursed only to the extent considered allowable pre-award costs.any application awarded in response to this foa will be subject to terms and conditions found on the award conditions and information for nih grants website. this includes any recent legislation and policy applicable to awards that is highlighted on this website.when an award is made, it is the policy of nci that meritorious projects reviewed as part of the spore be funded as part of the spore even though other funding may be available. duplicate funding will not be awarded.nci program staff may administratively delete funding or reduce the duration of support for components of spores that are judged by peer review to be less meritorious and/or nonessential to the conduct of the spore. also note that if a required spore component, including scientific collaborations, is judged by peer review as less meritorious, nci program may decide to not fund the entire application regardless of whether the application is in the fundable range for that fiscal year. additional funding requested by the applicants for qualified epps projects may be removed if, in the judgment of review and/or the nci program official, the proposed research strategy does not meet qualifications established for epps projects in part 2 section iv, phs 398 research plan (research project), under specific aims description. additional drp funding requested by the applicants for drp projects may be also be removed from the grant award in any one year if such projects are not awarded to investigators from underrepresented racial and ethnic groups.the nci program staff may reduce spore funding to support only two scientific research projects in cases where the overall impact score is within the funding range for the fiscal year but one of more projects are judged significantly less meritorious compared with the overall impact score. the exercise of this option by the nci staff is expected to be a rare event. under no circumstances may a new applicant submit an application with less than three research projects. renewal applicants may opt for submitting two research projects based on the success of previously awarded spore projects.additionally, ics may specify any special reporting requirements for the proposed clinical trial to be included under ic-specific terms and conditions in the noa. for example: if the proposed clinical trial has elevated risks, ics may require closer programmatic monitoring and it may be necessary to require the awardee to provide more frequent information and data as a term of the award (e.g., to clarify issues, address and evaluate concerns, provide documentation). all additional communications and information related to programmatic monitoring must be documented and incorporated into the official project file.individual awards are based on the application submitted to, and as approved by, the nih and are subject to the ic-specific terms and conditions identified in the noa.clinicaltrials.gov: if an award provides for one or more clinical trials. by law (title viii, section 801 of public law 110-85), the "responsible party" must register and submit results information for certain “applicable clinical trials” on the clinicaltrials.gov protocol registration and results system information website (https://register.clinicaltrials.gov). nih expects registration and results reporting of all trials whether required under the law or not. for more information, see https://grants.nih.gov/policy/clinical-trials/reporting/index.htminstitutional review board or independent ethics committee approval: grantee institutions must ensure that all protocols are reviewed by their irb or iec. to help ensure the safety of participants enrolled in nih-funded studies, the awardee must provide nih copies of documents related to all major changes in the status of ongoing protocols. data and safetymonitoring requirements: the nih policy for data and safety monitoring requires oversight and monitoring of all nih-conducted or -supported human biomedical and behavioral intervention studies (clinical trials) to ensure the safety of participants and the validity and integrity of the data. further information concerning these requirements is found at http://grants.nih.gov/grants/policy/hs/data_safety.htm and in the application instructions (sf424 (r&r) and phs 398).investigational new drug or investigational device exemption requirements: consistent with federal regulations, clinical research projects involving the use of investigational therapeutics, vaccines, or other medical interventions (including licensed products and devices for a purpose other than that for which they were licensed) in humans under a research protocol must be performed under a food and drug administration (fda) investigational new drug (ind) or investigational device exemption (ide).substitution of the research projects that have been proposed as part of a reviewed and funded spore application requires prior approval of the external advisory board and the nci program official. such substitution can be allowable if the original project is not performing as expected (i.e., unlikely to reach its proposed translational goals) or if the translational goals have been accomplished earlier than anticipated. the awardee is required to provide justification of the proposed changes. project substitutions cannot be approved during the first year of the current spore project period.awardee-selected projects that involve {clinical trials or studies involving greater than minimal risk to human subjects} require prior approval by nih prior to initiation.all nih grant and cooperative agreement awards include the nih grants policy statement as part of the noa. for these terms of award, see the nih grants policy statement part ii: terms and conditions of nih grant awards, subpart a: general and part ii: terms and conditions of nih grant awards, subpart b: terms and conditions for specific types of grants, grantees, and activities. more information is provided at award conditions and information for nih grants.recipients of federal financial assistance (ffa) from hhs must administer their programs in compliance with federal civil rights laws that prohibit discrimination on the basis of race, color, national origin, disability, age and, in some circumstances, religion, conscience, and sex. this includes ensuring programs are accessible to persons with limited english proficiency. the hhs office for civil rights provides guidance on complying with civil rights laws enforced by hhs. please see https://www.hhs.gov/civil-rights/for-providers/provider-obligations/index.html and http://www.hhs.gov/ocr/civilrights/understanding/section1557/index.html.hhs recognizes that research projects are often limited in scope for many reasons that are nondiscriminatory, such as the principal investigator’s scientific interest, funding limitations, recruitment requirements, and other considerations. thus, criteria in research protocols that target or exclude certain populations are warranted where nondiscriminatory justifications establish that such criteria are appropriate with respect to the health or safety of the subjects, the scientific study design, or the purpose of the research. for additional guidance regarding how the provisions apply to nih grant programs, please contact the scientific/research contact that is identified in section vii under agency contacts of this foa.please contact the hhs office for civil rights for more information about obligations and prohibitions under federal civil rights laws at https://www.hhs.gov/ocr/about-us/contact-us/index.html or call 1-800-368-1019 or tdd 1-800-537-7697.in accordance with the statutory provisions contained in section 872 of the duncan hunter national defense authorization act of fiscal year 2009 (public law 110-417), nih awards will be subject to the federal awardee performance and integrity information system (fapiis) requirements. fapiis requires federal award making officials to review and consider information about an applicant in the designated integrity and performance system (currently fapiis) prior to making an award. an applicant, at its option, may review information in the designated integrity and performance systems accessible through fapiis and comment on any information about itself that a federal agency previously entered and is currently in fapiis. the federal awarding agency will consider any comments by the applicant, in addition to other information in fapiis, in making a judgement about the applicant’s integrity, business ethics, and record of performance under federal awards when completing the review of risk posed by applicants as described in 45 cfr part 75.205 “federal awarding agency review of risk posed by applicants.” this provision will apply to all nih grants and cooperative agreements except fellowships.cooperative agreement terms and conditions of awardnot applicabledata management and sharingnote: the nih policy for data management and sharing is effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023.consistent with the nih policy for data management and sharing, when data management and sharing is applicable to the award, recipients will be required to adhere to the data management and sharing requirements as outlined in the nih grants policy statement. upon the approval of a data management and sharing plan, it is required for recipients to implement the plan as described.when multiple years are involved, awardees will be required to submit the research performance progress report (rppr) annually and financial statements as required in the nih grants policy statement.a final rppr, invention statement, and the expenditure data portion of the federal financial report are required for closeout of an award, as described in the nih grants policy statement.the federal funding accountability and transparency act of 2006 (transparency act), includes a requirement for awardees of federal grants to report information about first-tier subawards and executive compensation under federal assistance awards issued in fy2011 or later. all awardees of applicable nih grants and cooperative agreements are required to report to the federal subaward reporting system (fsrs) available at www.fsrs.gov on all subawards over $25,000. see the nih grants policy statement for additional information on this reporting requirement.in accordance with the regulatory requirements provided at 45 cfr 75.113 and appendix xii to 45 cfr part 75, recipients that have currently active federal grants, cooperative agreements, and procurement contracts from all federal awarding agencies with a cumulative total value greater than $10,000,000 for any period of time during the period of performance of a federal award, must report and maintain the currency of information reported in the system for award management (sam) about civil, criminal, and administrative proceedings in connection with the award or performance of a federal award that reached final disposition within the most recent five-year period. the recipient must also make semiannual disclosures regarding such proceedings. proceedings information will be made publicly available in the designated integrity and performance system (currently fapiis). this is a statutory requirement under section 872 of public law 110-417, as amended (41 u.s.c. 2313). as required by section 3010 of public law 111-212, all information posted in the designated integrity and performance system on or after april 15, 2011, except past performance reviews required for federal procurement contracts, will be publicly available. full reporting requirements and procedures are found in appendix xii to 45 cfr part 75 – award term and conditions for recipient integrity and performance matters.we encourage inquiries concerning this funding opportunity and welcome the opportunity to answer questions from potential applicants.era service desk (questions regarding assist, era commons, application errors and warnings, documenting system problems that threaten submission by the due date, and post-submission issues)finding help online: http://grants.nih.gov/support/ (preferred method of contact) telephone: 301-402-7469 or 866-504-9552 (toll free)general grants information (questions regarding application instructions, application processes, and nih grant resources) email: grantsinfo@nih.gov (preferred method of contact) telephone: 301-637-3015grants.gov customer support (questions regarding grants.gov registration and workspace) contact center telephone: 800-518-4726 email: support@grants.gov toby t. hecht, ph.d. associate director, translational research program national cancer institute (nci) telephone: 240-276-5683 email: hechtt@mail.nih.govpeter ujhazy m.d., ph.d. deputy associate director (lung, myeloma, sarcoma spores) national cancer institute (nci) telephone: 240-276-5681 email: ujhazyp@mail.nih.govjulia t. arnold, ph.d. program director (prostate and bladder spores) national cancer institute (nci) telephone: 240-276-5691 email: jarnold@mail.nih.govleah hubbard, ph.d. program director (head & neck, thyroid, brain, and skin spores) national cancer institute (nci) telephone: 240-276-5693 email: leah.hubbard@nih.govigor kuzmin, ph.d. program director (leukemia, lymphoma, kidney spores) national cancer institute (nci) telephone: 240-276-5684 email: kuzmini@mail.nih.govsteven f. nothwehr, ph.d. program director (gastrointestinal, pancreatic, neuroendocrine, and ras spores) national cancer institute (nci) telephone: 240-276-5685 email: nothwehrs@mail.nih.govjoyann phillips rohan, ph.d. program director (breast, ovarian, cervical, and endometrial spores) national cancer institute (nci) telephone: 240-276-5150 email: joyann.rohan@nih.govtranslational research program (trp) division of cancer treatment and diagnosis (dctd) national cancer institute (nci) telephone: 240-276-5730 referral officer national cancer institute (nci) telephone: 240-276-6390 email: ncirefof@dea.nci.nih.govshane woodward national cancer institute (nci) telephone: 240-276-6303 email: woodwars@mail.nih.govrecently issued trans-nih policy notices may affect your application submission. a full list of policy notices published by nih is provided in the nih guide for grants and contracts. all awards are subject to the terms and conditions, cost principles, and other considerations described in the nih grants policy statement.awards are made under the authorization of sections 301 and 405 of the public health service act as amended (42 usc 241 and 284) and under federal regulations 42 cfr part 52 and 45 cfr part 75. weekly toc for this announcement nih funding opportunities and noticesnote: for help accessing pdf, rtf, ms word, excel, powerpoint, audio or video files, see help downloading files.