Blueprint Neurotherapeutics Network (BPN): Small Molecule Drug Discovery and Development for Disorders of the Nervous System (U44 Clinical Trial Optional)
https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/pa-files/PAR-20-111.html
national eye institute (nei)national institute on aging (nia)national institute on alcohol abuse and alcoholism (niaaa)eunice kennedy shriver national institute of child health and human development (nichd)national institute of dental and craniofacial research (nidcr)national institute on drug abuse (nida)national institute of mental health (nimh)national center for complementary and integrative health (nccih)all applications to this funding opportunity announcement should fall within the mission of the institutes/centers. the following nih offices may co-fund applications assigned to those institutes/centers.office of behavioral and social sciences research (obssr) this funding opportunity announcement (foa) is developed as a nih blueprint for neuroscience research initiative (https://neuroscienceblueprint.nih.gov/)this funding opportunity announcement (foa) is developed as a nih blueprint for neuroscience research initiative (https://neuroscienceblueprint.nih.gov/)u44 small business innovation research (sbir) cooperative"agreement – fast track"reissue of par-18-541february 23, 2023 - notice of change to minimum performance standards for sbir and sttr applicants. see notice not-od-23-092.not-od-23-012 reminder: forms-h grant application forms and instructions must be used for due dates on or after january 25, 2023 - new grant application instructions now available not-od-22-190 - adjustments to nih and ahrq grant application due dates between september 22 and september 30, 2022 may 10, 2022 - notice of change key dates for par-20-111 "blueprint neurotherapeutics network (bpn): small molecule drug discovery and development for disorders of the nervous system (u44 clinical trial optional)". see notice not-ns-22-097october 28, 2021 - reminder: forms-g grant application forms & instructions must be used for due dates on or after january 25, 2022 - new grant application instructions now available. see notice not-od-22-018.september 13, 2021 - updates to the non-discrimination legal requirements for nih recipients. see notice not-od-21-181. august 5, 2021 - new nih "forms-g" grant application forms and instructions coming for due dates on or after january 25, 2022. see notice not-od-21-169.august 5, 2021 - update: notification of upcoming change in federal-wide unique entity identifier requirements. see notice not-od-21-170april 20, 2021 - expanding requirement for era commons ids to all senior/key personnel. see notice not-od-21-109 par-21-162- blueprint neurotherapeutics network (bpn): biologic-based drug discovery and development for disorders of the nervous system (u44 clinical trial optional)july 7, 2020 - notice of clarification to application types allowed par-20-111. see notice not-ns-20-091.july 26, 2019- changes to nih requirements regarding proposed human fetal tissue research. see notice not-od-19-128august 23, 2019- clarifying competing application instructions and notice of publication of frequently asked questions (faqs) regarding proposed human fetal tissue research. see notice not-od-19-137par-21-163, ug3/uh3 exploratory/developmental phased award cooperative agreementpar-20-122ug3/uh3 exploratory/developmental phased award cooperative agreementpar-21-233, u44 small business innovation research (sbir) cooperative agreement - fast-track93.853; 93.866; 93.867; 93.279; 93.273; 93.865; 93.121; 93.242; 93.213the blueprint neurotherapeutics network (bpn) encourages applications from small businesses seeking support to advance their small molecule drug discovery and development projects into the clinic. participants in the bpn are responsible for conducting all studies that involve disease- or target-specific assays, models, and other research tools and receive funding for all activities to be conducted in their own laboratories. in addition, applicants will collaborate with nih-funded consultants and can augment their project with nih contract research organizations (cros) that specialize in medicinal chemistry, pharmacokinetics, toxicology, formulations development, chemical synthesis including under good manufacturing practices (gmp), and phase i clinical testing. projects can enter either at the discovery stage, to optimize promising hit compounds through medicinal chemistry to the development stage, to advance a single development candidate through investigational new drug (ind)-enabling toxicology studies and phase i clinical testing. alternatively, projects can enter at the development stage and progress in a shorter period to ind enabling toxicology studies and phase i clinical testing. projects that enter at the discovery stage and meet their milestones may continue on through development. bpn awardee institutions retain their assignment of ip rights and gain assignment of ip rights from the bpn contractors (and thereby control the patent prosecution and licensing negotiations) for drug candidates developed in this program.march 2, 202030 days prior to the application due dateaugust 11, 2020, february 9, 2021,august 10, 2021,february 9, 2022,august 9, 2022, february 9, 2023, august 9, 2023 by 5:00 pm local time of applicant organization.all applications are due by 5:00 pm local time of applicant organization. all types of non-aids applications allowed for this funding opportunity announcement are due on the listed date(s). applicants are encouraged to apply early to allow adequate time to make any corrections to errors found in the application during the submission process by the due date.all applications are due by 5:00 pm local time of applicant organization. all types of non-aids applications allowed for this funding opportunity announcement are due on the listed date(s).applicants are encouraged to apply early to allow adequate time to make any corrections to errors found in the application during the submission process by the due date.september 7, 2020,may 7, 2021,september 7, 2021, may 7, 2022, september 7, 2022,may 7, 2023, september 7, 2023 by 5:00 pm local time of applicant organization.applicants are encouraged to apply early to allow adequate time to make any corrections to errors found in the application during the submission process by the due datenovember 2020, june 2021, november 2021, june 2022, november 2022, june 2023, november 2023january 2021, october 2021, january 2022, october 2022,january 2023, october 2023, january 2024april 2021there are several options available to submit your application through grants.gov to nih and department of health and human services partners. you must use one of these submission options to access the application forms for this opportunity.a. overviewrecent advances in neuroscience offer unprecedented opportunities to discover new treatments for nervous system disorders. however, before a new chemical entity can be tested in a clinical setting, it must undergo a process of chemical optimization to improve potency, selectivity, and drug-like properties, followed by pre-clinical safety testing to meet the standards set by the food and drug administration (fda) for clinical testing. all of the necessary expertise and resources are not commonly available to small companies as these activities are largely the domain of large pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies and contract research organizations.to facilitate drug discovery and development by the neuroscience community, the nih blueprint for neuroscience research (https://neuroscienceblueprint.nih.gov/) established the blueprint neurotherapeutics network (bpn), which offers neuroscience researchers funding for drug discovery and development activities that can be conducted in their own laboratories. researchers have the opportunity to collaborate with nih-funded consultants and contract research organizations (cros) that specialize in medicinal chemistry, pharmacokinetics, toxicology, formulations development, chemical synthesis under good manufacturing practices (gmp), and phase i clinical testing. a current list of bpn contractors and consultants is available at https://neuroscienceblueprint.nih.gov/bpdrugs/bpn_resources.htm.this funding opportunity announcement (foa) invites applications for new bpn projects. the pd/pi will be responsible for conducting all studies that involve disease- or target-specific assays, models, and other research tools. a program director/principal investigator (pd/pi) with- for example medicinal chemistry expertise and resources may additionally request funding to conduct structure-activity relationship (sar) studies in his or her own lab but collaborate with bpn contractors on in vitro admet, in vivo pk, drug manufacturing and ind-enabling toxicology studies. by contrast, a pd/pi with limited experience in drug discovery and development may opt to collaborate with all available bpn contractors. applicants may propose to conduct all drug discovery and development activities themselves or collaborate with bpn contractors on activities of their choice.for each project funded under this foa, the nih will assemble a customized lead development team (ldt). the ldt will be co-chaired by the pd/pi and a bpn consultant and will include members of the pd/pi's team, additional bpn consultants, and nih staff. the ldt will establish an overall strategy for the project, including milestones proposals, plan studies to be conducted by bpn contractors, and coordinate activities across different research sites.potential applicants are strongly encouraged to read frequently asked questions (faqs) on the bpn website (http://neuroscienceblueprint.nih.gov/bpdrugs/faqs.htm) and contact nih scientific/research staff and participating nih institutes/centers prior to preparing an application to discuss how they may best utilize bpn resources and whether their application fits the mission of a particular nih ic.for this foa, phase i clinical testing, studies or trials refer to the common phases of a clinical trial. u44 phase i and ii refer to the project phases of the sbir program.b. scopethe bpn is dedicated to the discovery and development of small molecule compounds, of a size and structure that can be readily synthesized and chemically modified (if optimization is required). this program is not designed to support development of biologics or biotechnology products, including oligonucleotides and proteins, or devices. applicants should contact nih scientific/research staff regarding small peptides (typically less than 6 amino acids) and other complex chemical structures, as well as combination therapies, to determine suitability for optimization and development within the bpn.to be eligible for this foa, a project must focus on a nervous system condition that falls within the mission of one of the participating institutes or centers. please see section c below for more information on the interests of the participating institutes and centers and alternative programs to consider.projects can enter either at the discovery stage, to optimize promising hit compounds through medicinal chemistry to the development stage, to advance a single development candidate through investigational new drug (ind)-enabling toxicology studies and phase i clinical testing. alternatively, projects can enter at the development stage and progress in a shorter period to ind enabling toxicology studies and phase i clinical testing.past experience with bpn suggests that many otherwise excellent awarded projects often require additional proof of concept data or the generation of tools in order to meet the program's requirements for initiating medicinal chemistry or ind-enabling studies. for this reason, all bpn sbir projects will begin with the u44 phase i to conduct feasibility studies required to launch medicinal chemistry (if entering at the discovery stage) or ind-enabling studies (if entering at the development stage). during the u44 phase i award, the nih will form the ldt, which will identify and oversee the studies necessary to meet the bpn requirements for initiating medicinal chemistry or ind-enabling studies. the ldt will also design plans and go/no-go milestones for all subsequent discovery and/or development work. progression from u44 phase i to phase ii will be based on administrative review (see section d., milestones). a project that completes all u44 phase i and phase ii discovery activities and advances into development will conduct all development work (including development feasibility studies) under the u44 phase ii award. after successful completion of the u44 phase i, a project may proceed either to the u44 phase ii in either hit-to-lead/lead optimization (sar) (the discovery phase) or to ind-enabling studies (the development phase).a schematic of this project structure is available on the bpn website at https://neuroscienceblueprint.nih.gov/bpdrugs/bpn_resources.htm .the following sections describe the discovery and development stages in more detail, including the program entry criteria, the program requirements for initiating medicinal chemistry and ind-enabling studies, and examples of activities that can be conducted during the u44 phase i award. potential applicants are strongly encouraged to contact nih scientific/research staff prior to preparing an application to clarify which entry stage is most appropriate for their project and what to include in their plans for the u44 phase i award.discoveryprojects that require medicinal chemistry to improve the potency and/or drug-like properties of promising bioactive compounds will enter the bpn at the discovery stage. the process of understanding the structure-activity relationship (sar) for desired drug properties typically requires dozens of rounds of compound synthesis and testing. initially, medicinal chemistry will focus heavily on optimizing activity and potency of compounds in primary and secondary in vitro assays. subsequently, sar will increase emphasis on admet (absorption, distribution, metabolism, excretion, toxicity) properties of the compounds, with continued monitoring and optimization of bioactivity. the ultimate goal of the sar effort is the selection of a development candidate with sufficient bioactivity, therapeutic index, and drug-like properties to proceed to ind-directed pre-clinical safety assessment with reasonable projected human doses.entry criteria for discovery stageprojects must meet the following requirements prior to entering discovery:feasibility studies for discovery stage (u44 phase i)all discovery projects will begin with a u44 phase i award of up to two years. the first 6-12 months should be used to prepare for sar studies. the following are general expectations for a bpn project to initiate sar studies:examples of activities that can be supported include:the pd(s)/pi(s) will be responsible for conducting all studies that involve disease- or target-specific assays, models, and other research tools. applicants may propose to use bpn contractors for chemical synthesis and admet profiling or request funds to conduct this work themselves.the discovery u44 phase i award typically supports the following activities :discovery activities after feasibility phase (u44 phase ii)the bpn typically supports up to one additional year of medicinal chemistry to complete the sar studies to identify a development candidate that meets the entry criteria for development (below).the discovery u44 phase ii award typically supports the following activities:the pd/pi will be responsible for conducting primary in vitro biological assessment of compounds on a one-to-two week schedule to inform the design of subsequent iterations of compound synthesis. in addition to a regular testing schedule in the primary assay, the pd/pi will provide confirmation of the activity of select compounds in secondary and counter-screening assays and animal models relevant to the drug target and therapeutic indication.bpn contractors can produce compound analogs for sar testing, scale up compounds as needed for in vivo testing, and provide standard screening services to assess in vitro and in vivo admet characteristics of the compounds. typically, bpn will assign four medicinal chemist ftes to a project, generating approximately 4-8 compounds per week, plus additional staff to support computational chemistry modeling and admet studies as appropriate.compounds that meet the bpn's criteria for a development candidate can continue seamlessly on into development.developmentthe development stage includes ind-directed preclinical safety studies, gmp synthesis of clinical trial material, formulation development, and phase i clinical testing. projects that have completed medicinal chemistry optimization and identified a development candidate may initiate development activities within bpn. the bpn does not support sar studies during development.entry criteria for development stageapplication for entry into the development stage must have identified the candidate compound and cannot request additional medicinal chemistry resources. it may be acceptable to have 2 candidates that will be narrowed to a single candidate as part of the u44 phase i activities (time and budget permitting).projects must meet the following requirements prior to entering the development portion of the u44 phase ii:feasibility studies for developmentall applications proposing to enter at the development stage at the start of the u44 phase ii will begin with a u44 phase i award of up to two years, to prepare for ind-enabling studies, which will be supported under the u44 phase ii award. (projects that began in discovery will conduct these activities during their u44 phase ii award.) the following are general expectations for a project to initiate ind-enabling studies within bpn:examples of activities that can be supported during the development preparatory activities include:the pd(s)/pi(s) is responsible for conducting all studies that involve disease- or target-specific assays, models, and other research tools. bpn contractors can perform all other work.development activities after feasibility phase (u44 phase ii)the development u44 phase ii award may include the following:the pd/pi's institution will be responsible for assembly and submission of the ind application and scheduling meetings with the fda and therefore should include support for this activity in their plan. nih staff and consultants on the ldt must be included in all meetings with the fda.the development of the protocol and management of the phase i clinical trial will be performed by a clinical development team (cdt), which will evolve from the ldt and include the pd/pi, clinical consultants identified by the pd/pi and nih, and nih staff. the protocol, selected supporting trial documents, and regulatory documents will be submitted to nih for administrative review (including internal and external experts) prior to commencement of the clinical trial (defined as signing of first informed consent).bpn contractors can conduct the preclinical safety studies, gmp synthesis, formulation and other activities required to prepare for human testing. bpn contractors will provide data and reports in a format suitable for inclusion in an ind application and will assist in the development of the application. the phase i clinical trial can also be conducted through bpn contractors.projects not appropriate for this announcement include:c. nih institute and center interests and guidancenational institute on aging (nia)nia is interested in studies that will provide drug development expertise and infrastructure support to researchers interested in developing new small molecules aimed at modifying the behavioral symptoms in alzheimer's disease (ad), delaying the onset or slowing the progression of ad, mild cognitive impairment (mci), other dementias of aging and age-related cognitive decline. ideally, this initiative is aimed at researchers who have promising small molecule compounds but lack the necessary outside expertise and infrastructure to advance these compounds to the clinic.researchers who may have the necessary drug development expertise and access to infrastructure to advance small molecules to the clinic should consider submitting an application to the alzheimer's drug development program (par-18-820) or its reissue. this program is also available to researchers who are interested in the preclinical development of biologics or repurposed drugs.nia and the ad scientific community recognize that one of the major challenges to the successful development of drugs for ad is the poor translation of preclinical efficacy from ad animal models to the clinic. meta analyses of preclinical studies indicate that a key factor contributing to the poor predictive power of ad animal models is the lack of standards in the design, conduct, and data analyses. therefore, to improve the quality and predictive value of animal model studies nia urges applicants, describing supporting data or proposed animal model studies, to follow best practices guidelines as summarized at: http://alzres.com/content/3/5/28).national institute on alcohol abuse and alcoholism (niaaa)alcohol interacts directly and indirectly with a wide spectrum of molecular targets in the brain, and alcohol-seeking behaviors and alcohol use disorders (aud) involve multiple neurotransmitter systems, neuromodulators, hormones, signal transduction pathways, etc. these include signaling systems and signal transduction pathways of opioids, serotonin, dopamine, glutamate, ?-aminobutyric acid (gaba), endocannabinoids, neuropeptides (e.g. corticotropin releasing factor (crf), neuropeptide y, substance p), and protein kinases a and c. numerous therapeutic agents targeting these and other molecular systems have been studied preclinically and in clinical trials. niaaa is interested in research aimed to develop new pharmaceuticals to provide effective therapy for aud. studies involving novel targets previously un-recognized or understudied for the treatment of aud are particularly encouraged. specific genetic variants that may contribute to the risk for alcoholism and/or render alcohol dependent individuals responsive to specific therapeutic agent have been discovered. niaaa is interested in supporting research to develop pharmaceuticals targeting individuals with identified genotypic and phenotypic characteristics to improve efficacy and safety.national eye institute (nei)the national eye institute (nei) interest in blueprintneurotherapeutics is to develop novel therapies to treat diseases and disorders of the visual system, especially blinding eye diseases such as cataracts, glaucoma, age-related macular degeneration, retinitis pigmentosa, ocular pain and other conditions. the nei is also interested in other visual system disorders such as strabismus and amblyopia that could be treated with pharmacological interventions. each project should have a well-defined end-point, achievable within a five-year time frame, for developing a treatment for a specific disease or disorder of the visual system. the steps towards this goal should be clearly delineated in a series of milestones that support the development of a novel therapeutic that can then be tested in a clinical trial. if successful, a project funded under this program may lead to filing an ind-directed pharmacological and toxicological study, and phase i clinical testing. investigators are encouraged to contact nei program staff to discuss potential research projects prior to application submission to determine alignment of the planned studies with priorities of the institute.national institute of dental and craniofacial research (nidcr)nidcr is interested in neurotherapeutics development for painful disorders of the orofacial region including temporomandibular joint disorder, trigeminal neuropathies, burning mouth syndrome, oral cancer pain and other conditions. recent advances in genomics and phenotyping of subjects with orofacial pain conditions have expanded the scope of potential targets to treat these conditions. receptor systems, ion channels, and pro- and anti-inflammatory molecules have been implicated in chronic pain. nidcr is interested in supporting research that will lead to highly efficacious and specific pharmacological treatments for individuals with orofacial pain disorders.investigators are encouraged to contact nidcr program staff to discuss potential research projects prior to application submission to determine alignment of the planned studies with priorities of the institute mission and strategic plan.eunice kennedy shriver national institute of child health and human development (nichd)the nichd is interested in supporting neurotherapeutic research aimed to discover small molecules and compounds, and develop novel and improved pharmacotherapies for developmental disorders, diseases and conditions in pediatric population.investigators are strongly encouraged to contact nichd program staff to discuss their potential research projects prior to application submission to determine alignment of their planned studies with the nichd's priorities and strategic plan.national institute of mental health (nimh)nimh supports neuroscience research to discover the causes of mental illness and to develop more effective and safer treatments. the nimh is interested in applications proposing development of therapies aimed at novel molecular and clinical targets for the treatment of mental disorders, especially treatment-resistant depression, bipolar disorder, schizophrenia, ptsd, and autism spectrum disorder. studies aimed at the development of new ligands for targets where a probe or therapeutic already exists are generally of lower priority.nimh will only support projects entering the bpn at the discovery (optimization of validated small molecule hits and promising lead compounds through medicinal chemistry) stage. nimh will not support projects entering the bpn at the development (ind enabling/gmp synthesis or phase i trials) stage. projects at the development stage should consider applying to the nimh sbir/sttr programs. projects at the early clinical trials phase should consider the nimh sbir/sttr programs.or the first in human and early stage clinical trials of novel investigational drugs or devices for psychiatric disorders (u01) par-18-427. investigators are strongly encouraged to discuss their research plans with nimh scientific/research contact prior to submission to determine alignment of the planned studies with nimh priorities and to assess whether this or other nimh funding opportunities are most appropriate. investigators are also encouraged to review the following nimh drug discovery foas: drug discovery for nervous system disorders par-19-147 (r01) and par-19-146 (r21), assay development and screening for discovery of chemical probes or therapeutic agents par-17-484 (r01), discovery of in vivo chemical probes for novel brain targets par-17-336 (r01), discovery of cell-based chemical probes for novel brain targets par-17-335 (r21), national cooperative drug discovery/development groups (ncddg) for the treatment of mental disorders, drug or alcohol addiction par-18-230 (u01) and par-18-231 (u19).consistent with nimh's research domain criteria (rdoc) initiative, research projects directed towards ameliorating pathophysiology that is potentially more proximal to specific functional deficits (domains) than dsm diagnostic entities are encouraged. additional information about the rdoc approach can be found at the rdoc website. the testing of functional domains not included specifically in rdoc may also be considered, if well justified. in vivo preclinical screening assays in animals should be carefully selected based on proposed brain targets and mechanisms of therapeutic action (see not-mh-19-053).high-quality and reproducible studies that are reported to the scientific community in a transparent manner are an essential cornerstone of the research enterprise. attention to principles of study design and transparency are essential to enable reviewers, the scientific community, and nih to assess the quality of scientific findings. in support of this important goal, investigators must follow instructions to address rigor and reproducibility (http://grants.nih.gov/reproducibility/index.htm).further information on nimh research priorities can be found in the nimh strategic plan, strategic research priorities, and interventions workgroup report. applicants are strongly encouraged to discuss applications with nimh staff listed in section vii - agency contact(s) scientific/research contacts.national institute of neurological disorder sand stroke (ninds)a list of diseases that is relevant to the research mission of the ninds can be found at https://www.ninds.nih.gov/disorders/all-disorders ; applicants are encouraged to contact the ninds to discuss disease areas of interest.this foa serves as the primary support mechanism at ninds for the discovery and development of small molecule drugs. researchers focused on the development of biologics and biotechnology products should consider the create-bio program (https://www.ninds.nih.gov/current-research/research-funded-ninds/translational-research/create-bio ). applicants seeking support only to conduct early stage clinical trials should consider applying for an ninds exploratory clinical trials r01, through par-18-420, which provides additional flexibility in budget and time, as well as the option of including a phase ii trial.there is growing recognition that the quality and reproducibility of both preclinical and clinical research depend on the rigor with which researchers conduct studies, control for potential bias, and report essential methodological details. examples of critical elements of a well-designed study are summarized on the ninds website http://www.ninds.nih.gov/funding/transparency_in_reporting_guidance.pdf. ninds urges applicants to this program to consider these elements when describing supporting data and proposed studies.national center for complementary and integrative health (nccih)nccih is interested in supporting research aimed at compounds and small molecules from natural products (e.g., cannabinoids, venoms, conotoxins, melatonin, prebiotics, probiotics, herbs, etc.) that may be used or developed to modulate cns-based symptoms with priority given to pain and pain related symptoms including sleep, stress, and mood disorders. investigators are strongly encouraged to discuss their research plans with the nccih scientific/research contact prior to submitting their applications.national institute on drug abuse (nida)through participating in this foa, nida aims to provide drug development expertise and infrastructure to support the addiction researchers interested in developing new molecular entities for the treatment of substance use disorders (sud). projects focused on opioid use disorder, cocaine, methamphetamine and marijuana use disorders are of high priority for nida.nida will only support the projects to develop the innovative pharmacological approaches entering the bpn at the discovery stage. specifically, nida is interested in using the bpn mechanism to support the addiction researchers in the "hit to lead optimization" stages with a well-justified proposal for the development stage as well.nida applicants are strongly encouraged to take full advantage of the opportunities the bpn affords, including collaboration with bpn consultants and nih-supported contract research organizations (cros) that specialize in medicinal chemistry, pharmacokinetics, toxicology, formulations development, chemical synthesis under good manufacturing practices (gmp). researchers, who possess the drug development expertise and access to the necessary infrastructure to advance small molecules to the clinic, should consider submitting their applications to specialized nida-administered programs.investigators are strongly encouraged to discuss their research plans with nida program staff prior to submission to determine alignment of the planned studies with nida's interest and priorities. nida staff will also provide help in assessing whether this or other nida funding opportunities would be the most appropriate.d. milestonesbecause drug discovery and development are inherently high risk, it is expected that there will be significant attrition as projects progress. go/no-go milestones (typically every six months) will be established by the ldt at the start of each project and updated as needed.an administrative review will be conducted by nih program staff, with technical input from an external oversight committee (composed of senior non-federal scientists who are not directly involved in bpn projects), to decide which projects will advance from the u44 phase i to the phase ii award and progress after each subsequent milestone based on:approval for commencement of a clinical trial (defined as signing of informed consent by first prospective subject) will include the following:please note: if a funded project does not make sufficient progress toward the agreed upon milestones at any stage, funding for the project and access to bpn contract resources may be discontinued (see section vi.2.).e. quality and compliance requirementssince the goal of this program is to generate therapeutics which will be eligible for fda approval, adherence to compliance and quality criteria is required.all clinical trials must be performed following good clinical practices (gcp) and in accord with nih policy for data and safety monitoring (https://osp.od.nih.gov/clinical-research/nih-data-and-safety-monitoring-policies/).investigational products for use in clinical trials must be produced under current good manufacturing practice (cgmp) practices.f. intellectual property (ip)since the ultimate goal of this program is to bring new drugs to the market, the creation and protection of intellectual property (ip) that will make drug candidates attractive to potential licensing and commercialization partners are a significant consideration in designing research strategies and prioritizing projects for funding. this program is structured so that the small business concern retains their assignment of ip rights and gains assignment of ip rights from the bpn contractors (and thereby control the patent prosecution and licensing negotiations) for drug candidates developed through this program. it is expected that the small business concern will take responsibility for patent filings, maintenance and licensing efforts toward eventual commercialization. the pd/pi is expected to work closely with technology transfer/business development officials at his or her institution to ensure that royalty agreements, patent filings, and all other necessary ip arrangements are completed in a timely manner and that commercialization plans are developed and updated over the course of the project. award recipients will be encouraged to identify and foster relationships with potential licensing and commercialization partners early in the drug development process, consistent with the goals of the bpn.the oer glossary and the sf424 (r&r) application guide provide details on these application types. only those application types listed here are allowed for the foa.need help determining whether you are doing a clinical trial?pa/par:the number of awards is contingent upon nih appropriations and the submission of a sufficient number of meritorious applications.application budgets are not limited but must reflect the actual needs of the proposed project.applicants should rarely exceed up to $500,000 total cost per year for phase i and up to $1,500,000 total cost per year for the phase ii. in all cases, applicants should propose a budget that is reasonable and appropriate for completion of the research project. application budgets should only cover the work that will be performed by the pd/pi and his/her staff. the nih will pay bpn contractors and consultants directly for their work; therefore, these expenses should not be included in the budget for this application.durations up to 2 years for phase i and up to 3 years for phase ii may be requested.only united states small business concerns (sbcs) are eligible to submit applications for this opportunity. a small business concern is one that, at the time of award of phase i and phase ii, meets all of the following criteria:if the concern is more than 50% owned by multiple venture capital operating companies, hedge funds, private equity firms, or any combination of these falls under 3 (ii) or 3 (iii) above, see section iv. application and submission information for additional instructions regarding required application certification.if an employee stock ownership plan owns all or part of the concern, each stock trustee and plan member is considered an owner.if a trust owns all or part of the concern, each trustee and trust beneficiary is considered an owner.definitions:sbcs must also meet the other regulatory requirements found in 13 c.f.r. part 121. business concerns, other than investment companies licensed, or state development companies qualifying under the small business investment act of 1958, 15 u.s.c. 661, et seq., are affiliates of one another when either directly or indirectly, (a) one concern controls or has the power to control the other; or (b) a third-party/parties controls or has the power to control both. business concerns include, but are not limited to, any individual (sole proprietorship) partnership, corporation, joint venture, association, or cooperative. the sf424 (r&r) sbir/sttr application guide should be referenced for detailed eligibility information.small business concerns that are more than 50% owned by multiple venture capital operating companies, hedge funds, private equity firms, or any combination of these are not eligible to apply to the nih sttr program.performance benchmark requirementsphase i to phase ii transition rate benchmark: in accordance with guidance from the sba, the hhs sbir/sttr program is implementing the phase i to phase ii transition rate benchmark required by the sbir/sttr reauthorization act of 2011 and the sbir and sttr extension act of 2022. the benchmark establishes a minimum number of phase ii awards the company must have received relative to a given number of phase i awards received during the 5-fiscal year time period. the transition rate is calculated as the total number of sbir and sttr phase ii awards a company received during the past 5 fiscal years divided by the total number of sbir and sttr phase i awards it received during the past 5 fiscal years excluding the most recently-completed year. the transition rate requirement, agreed upon and established by all 11 sbir agencies, was published for public comment in a federal register notice on october 16, 2012 (77 fr 63410) and amended on may 23, 2013 (78 fr 30951).on june 1 of each year, sba will identify the companies that fail to meet minimum performance requirements.sba calculates individual company phase i to phase ii transition rates using sbir and sttr award information across all federal agencies. sba will notify companies and the relevant officials at the participating agencies. more information on the phase i to phase ii transition rate requirement is available at sbir.gov.phase ii to commercialization benchmark: in accordance with guidance from the sba, the hhs sbir/sttr programs are implementing the phase ii to commercialization rate benchmark for phase i applicants, as required by the sbir/sttr reauthorization act of 2011 and the sbir and sttr extension act of 2022. the commercialization rate benchmark was published in a federal register notice on august 8, 2013 (78 fr 48537), with a reopening of the comment period published on september 26, 2013 (78 fr 59410).non-domestic (non-u.s.) components of u.s. organizations are not eligible to apply.foreign components, as defined in the nih grants policy statement, may be allowed.applicant organizations must complete and maintain the following registrations as described in the sf 424 (r&r) application guide to be eligible to apply for or receive an award. all registrations must be completed prior to the application being submitted. registration can take 6 weeks or more, so applicants should begin the registration process as soon as possible. the nih policy on late submission of grant applications states that failure to complete registrations in advance of a due date is not a valid reason for a late submission.program directors/principal investigators (pd(s)/pi(s))all pd(s)/pi(s) must have an era commons account. pd(s)/pi(s) should work with their organizational officials to either create a new account or to affiliate their existing account with the applicant organization in era commons. if the pd/pi is also the organizational signing official, they must have two distinct era commons accounts, one for each role. obtaining an era commons account can take up to 2 weeks.under the sbir program, for both phase i and phase ii, the primary employment of the pd/pi must be with the small business concern at the time of award and during the conduct of the proposed project. for projects with multiple pds/pis, at least one must meet the primary employment requirement. occasionally, deviations from this requirement may occur.for the sttr program, the pd(s)/pi(s) may be employed with the sbc or the single, "partnering" non-profit research institution as long as s/he has a formal appointment with or commitment to the applicant sbc, which is characterized by an official relationship between the sbc and that individual. such a relationship does not necessarily involve a salary or other form of remuneration the primary employment of the pd/pi must be with the sbc or the research institution (where they are pd/pi at) at the time of award and during the conduct of the proposed project.each pd/pi must commit a minimum of 10% effort to the project.number of applicationsnih will not accept similar grant applications with essentially the same research focus from the same applicant organization. this includes derivative or multiple applications that propose to develop a single product, process, or service that, with non-substantive modifications, can be applied to a variety of purposes. applicants may not simultaneously submit identical/essentially identical applications under both this funding opportunity and any other hhs funding opportunity, including the sbir and sttr parent announcements.the nih will not accept duplicate or highly overlapping applications under review at the same time. this means that the nih will not accept:a phase i awardee may submit a phase ii application either before or after expiration of the phase i budget period, unless the awardee elects to submit a phase i and phase ii application concurrently under the fast-track procedure. to maintain eligibility to seek phase ii or iib support, a phase i awardee should submit a phase ii application, and a phase ii awardee should submit a phase iib application, within the first six due dates following the expiration of the phase i or ii budget period, respectively.in phase i, normally, a minimum of two-thirds or 67% of the research or analytical effort must be carried out by the small business concern. the total amount of all consultant and contractual arrangements to third parties for portions of the scientific and technical effort generally may not exceed 33% of the total amount requested (direct, f&a/indirect, and fee).in phase ii, normally, a minimum of one-half or 50% of the research or analytical effort must be carried out by the small business concern. the total amount of consultant and contractual arrangements to third parties for portions of the scientific and technical effort generally may not exceed 50% of the total phase ii amount requested (direct, f&a/indirect, and fee).a small business concern may subcontract a portion of its sbir or sttr award to a federal laboratory within the limits above. a federal laboratory, as defined in 15 u.s.c. § 3703, means any laboratory, any federally funded research and development center, or any center established under 15 u.s.c. §§ 3705 & 3707 that is owned, leased, or otherwise used by a federal agency and funded by the federal government, whether operated by the government or by a contractor.the basis for determining the percentage of work to be performed by each of the cooperative parties in phase i or phase ii will be the total of the requested costs attributable to each party, unless otherwise described and justified in "consortium/contractual arrangements" of the phs 398 research plan component of sf424 (r&r) application forms.additional details are contained in the sf424 (r&r) sbir/sttr application guide. the application forms package specific to this opportunity must be accessed through assist, grants.gov workspace or an institutional system-to-system solution. links to apply using assist or grants.gov workspace are available in part 1 of this foa. see your administrative office for instructions if you plan to use an institutional system-to-system solution.it is critical that applicants follow the sbir/sttr (b) instructions in the sf424 (r&r) sbir/sttr application guide, except where instructed in this funding opportunity announcement to do otherwise. conformance to the requirements in the application guide is required and strictly enforced. applications that are out of compliance with these instructions may be delayed or not accepted for review.letter of intentalthough a letter of intent is not required, is not binding, and does not enter into the review of a subsequent application, the information that it contains allows ic staff to estimate the potential review workload and plan the review.by the date listed in part 1. overview information, prospective applicants are asked to submit a letter of intent that includes the following information:the letter of intent should be sent tocharles cywin, ph.d. telephone: 301-496-1779 email: charles.cywin@nih.gov note: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023, the data management and sharing (dms) plan will be attached in the other plan(s) attachment in forms-h subsequent application forms packages. for due dates on or before january 24, 2023, the data sharing plan and genomic data sharing plan gds) will continue to be attached in the resource sharing plan attachment in forms-g application forms packages.other attachments:sba company registryall applicants to the sbir and sttr programs are required to register at the sba company registry prior to application submission and attach proof of registration. completed registrations will receive a unique sbc control id and .pdf file. if applicants have previously registered, you are still required to attach proof of registration. the sba company registry recommends verification with sam, but a sam account is not required to complete the registration. in order to be verified with sam, your email address must match one of the contacts in sam. if you are unsure what is listed in sam for your company, you may verify the information on the sam site. confirmation of your company's duns is necessary to verify your email address in sam. follow these steps listed below to register and attach proof of registration to your application.a. navigate to the sba company registry.b. if you are a previous sbir/sttr awardee from any agency, search for your small business by company name, ein/tax id, duns, or existing sbir/sttr contract/grant number in the search fields provided. identify your company and click "proceed to registration".c. if you are a first time applicant, click the "new to the sbir program?" link on lower right of registry screen.d. fill out the required information on the "basic information" and "eligibility statement" screens.e. press "complete registration" on the lower right of the "eligibility statement" screen and follow all instructions.f. download and save your sba registry pdf locally. the name will be in the format of sbc_123456789.pdf, where sbc_123456789 (9 digit number) is your firm's sbc control id. do not change or alter the file name. changing the file name may cause delays in the processing of your application.g. when you are completing the application package, attach this sba registry pdf as a separate file by clicking "add attachments" located to the right of the other attachments field on the "research and related other project information" form.for questions and for technical assistance concerning the sba company registry, please contact the sba at http://sbir.gov/feedback?type=reg.other attachments:1. sbir application certification for small business concerns majority-owned by multiple venture capital operating companies, hedge funds, or private equity firmsapplicant small business concerns that are majority-owned by multiple venture capital operating companies, hedge funds, or private equity firms (e.g. majority vcoc-owned) are required to submit a certification at time of their application submission per the sbir policy directive. follow the instructions below.applicants small business concerns who are more than 50% directly owned and controlled by one or more individuals (who are citizens or permanent resident aliens of the united states), other business concerns (each of which is more than 50% directly owned and controlled by individuals who are citizens or permanent resident aliens of the united states), or any combination of these (i.e. not majority vcoc-owned) should not fill out this certification and should not attach it their application package.this award is intended to support studies to be conducted by the pd(s)/pi(s) and associated personnel. the budget may not support drug development activities that the applicant proposes to conduct through bpn contracts. the nih will pay bpn contractors and consultants directly for their work. equipment requests are allowed but not encouraged. equipment requests should be considered only if the equipment is absolutely necessary to the success of the project and cannot be supported by any other means. this is likely to be a subject of negotiation before an award is made. some budget requests may be made for the pd/pi's institution to assemble and file the ind.the u44 budget may include travel costs for one or two trips per year to attend meetings of the bpn external oversight committee or hold face-to-face meetings of the ldt/cdt.it is expected that the pd/pi will dedicate at least 20% level of effort (2.4 person months) to managing a bpn project. it is strongly recommended that potential applicants consult nih staff about their anticipated budget in the early stages of preparing an application.other plan(s):note: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023, the data management and sharing plan will be attached in the other plan(s) attachment in forms-h and subsequent application forms packages. for due dates on or before january 24, 2023, the data sharing plan and genomic data sharing plan gds) will continue to be attached in the resource sharing plan attachment in forms-g application forms packages.all applicants planning research (funded or conducted in whole or in part by nih) that results in the generation of scientific data are required to comply with the instructions for the data management and sharing plan. all small business innovation research (sbir) and small business technology transfer (sttr) applicants are required to address a data management and sharing plan, regardless of the amount of direct costs requested for any one year. however, sbir and sttr recipients may retain the rights to data generated during the performance of an sbir or sttr award for up to 20 years after the award date, per the small business innovation research (sbir) and small business technology transfer (sttr) program policy directive. an acceptable data management and sharing plan can reference and incorporate these data rights. further information about sbir and sttr data rights are enumerated in the nih gps.phs 398 research planall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) sbir/sttr application guide must be followed, with the following additional instructions:specific aims: the specific aims section should include aims delineated for the u44 phase i and phase ii award. if a clinical study is proposed, define the aims of the clinical study.research strategy: the research strategy section should include the following subsections:clinical impact (significance): each application generally should focus on only one disorder or disease, even if the compound proposed for the project shows activity in models for more than one disorder. this is because the target patient population and intended use guide the design of the drug and of the preclinical studies, such as toxicology and formulation.biological rationale and compound profile (significance): justify the choice of drug target/pathway and proposed strategy to alter the target/pathway activity.testing strategy (approach): specify whether the project is proposed for entry at the discovery or development stage. clearly indicate within a table which activities will be conducted by the pd/pi and associated personnel (i.e., funded by the u44 award) and which activities will be conducted by bpn contractors. include experimental designs and justification for all studies that will be conducted by the pd/pi and associated personnel. activities that will be conducted by bpn contractors need not be described in detail in the application, since these will be planned after award by the ldt.for discovery-stage projects:innovation: explain how the project offers a novel approach to treating the proposed disease indication.letters of support: if research will be performed at more than one institution, include a letter of support from each institution clarifying how intellectual property (ip) will be shared or otherwise managed across the institutions, to ensure that the ip remains unencumbered, consistent with achieving the goals of the program.the following modifications also apply:note that phase i sbir/sttr appendix materials are not permitted. only limited items are allowed in the appendix of other small business applications. the instructions for the appendix of the research plan are described in the sf424 (r&r) application guide; any instructions provided here are in addition to the sf424 (r&r) application guide instructions.sbir/sttr informationall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) sbir/sttr application guide must be followed, with the following additional instructions:commercialization plan: all applicants are expected to describe a realistic plan (extending beyond the u44 phase ii), which outlines how and when full commercialization can be accomplished. the full commercialization of the product/technology should be carried out with non-sbir funds.the following subsections with the headings must be included within the commercialization plan, in addition to the requirements listed in the sf424 application guide:1) statement of need2) sbir/sttr commercialization history3) intellectual property (ip) strategyif you answered "yes" to the question "are human subjects involved?" on the r&r other project information form, you must include at least one human subjects study record using the study record: phs human subjects and clinical trials information form or delayed onset study record.study record: phs human subjects and clinical trials informationall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.note: delayed onset does not apply to a study that can be described but will not start immediately (i.e., delayed start).all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.see part 1. section iii.1 for information regarding the requirement for obtaining a unique entity identifier and for completing and maintaining active registrations in system for award management (sam), era commons, and grants.govpart i. overview information contains information about key dates and time. applicants are encouraged to submit applications before the due date to ensure they have time to make any application corrections that might be necessary for successful submission. when a submission date falls on a weekend or federal holiday , the application deadline is automatically extended to the next business day.organizations must submit applications to grants.gov (the online portal to find and apply for grants across all federal agencies). applicants must then complete the submission process by tracking the status of the application in the era commons, nih's electronic system for grants administration. nih and grants.gov systems check the application against many of the application instructions upon submission. errors must be corrected and a changed/corrected application must be submitted to grants.gov on or before the application due date and time. if a changed/corrected application is submitted after the deadline, the application will be considered late. applications that miss the due date and time are subjected to the nih policy on late application submission.applicants are responsible for viewing their application before the due date in the era commons to ensure accurate and successful submission.information on the submission process and a definition of on-time submission are provided in the sf424 (r&r) sbir/sttr application guide.this initiative is not subject tointergovernmental review. all nih awards are subject to the terms and conditions, cost principles, and other considerations described in the nih grants policy statement .pre-award costs are allowable only as described in the nih grants policy statement.applications must be submitted electronically following the instructions described in the sf424 (r&r) sbir/sttr application guide. paper applications will not be accepted.applicants must complete all required registrations before the application due date. section iii. eligibility information contains information about registration.for assistance with your electronic application or for more information on the electronic submission process, visit how to apply – application guide. if you encounter a system issue beyond your control that threatens your ability to complete the submission process on-time, you must follow the dealing with system issues guidance. for assistance with application submission, contact the application submission contacts in section vii.important reminders:all pd(s)/pi(s) must include their era commons id in the credential field of the senior/key person profile component of the sf424(r&r) application package. failure to register in the commons and to include a valid pd/pi commons id in the credential field will prevent the successful submission of an electronic application to nih.the applicant organization must ensure that the duns number it provides on the application is the same number used in the organization's profile in the era commons and for the system for award management (sam). additional information may be found in the sf424 (r&r) sbir/sttrapplication guide.see more tips for avoiding common errors.upon receipt, applications will be evaluated for completeness and compliance with application instructions by the center for scientific review, nih. applications that are incomplete or non-compliant will not be reviewed.note: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023, the data sharing plan and genomic data sharing plan (gds) as part of the resource sharing plan will not be evaluated at time of review.only the review criteria described below will be considered in the review process. applications submitted to the nih in support of the nih mission are evaluated for scientific and technical merit through the nih peer review system.for this particular announcement, note the following:in addition, for applications involving clinical trials:significancedoes the project address an important problem or a critical barrier to progress in the field?isthe prior research that serves as the key support for the proposed project rigorous? if the aims of the project are achieved, how will scientific knowledge, technical capability, and/or clinical practice be improved? how will successful completion of the aims change the concepts, methods, technologies, treatments, services, or preventative interventions that drive this field? does the proposed project have commercial potential to lead to a marketable product, process or service? (in the case of phase ii, fast-track, and phase ii competing renewals, does the commercialization plan demonstrate a high probability of commercialization?)specific to this announcement:in addition, for applications proposing clinical trialsinvestigator(s)are the pd(s)/pi(s), collaborators, and other researchers well suited to the project? if early stage investigators or those in the early stages of independent careers, do they have appropriate experience and training? if established, have they demonstrated an ongoing record of accomplishments that have advanced their field(s)? if the project is collaborative or multi-pd/pi, do the investigators have complementary and integrated expertise; are their leadership approach, governance and organizational structure appropriate for the project?specific to this announcement:in addition, for applications proposing clinical trialsinnovationdoes the application challenge and seek to shift current research or clinical practice paradigms by utilizing novel theoretical concepts, approaches or methodologies, instrumentation, or interventions? are the concepts, approaches or methodologies, instrumentation, or interventions novel to one field of research or novel in a broad sense? is a refinement, improvement, or new application of theoretical concepts, approaches or methodologies, instrumentation, or interventions proposed?specific to this announcement:in addition, for applications proposing clinical trialsapproachare the overall strategy, methodology, and analyses well-reasoned and appropriate to accomplish the specific aims of the project? have the investigators included plans to address weaknesses in the rigor of prior research that serves as the key support for the proposed project? have the investigators presented strategies to ensure a robust and unbiased approach, as appropriate for the work proposed? are potential problems, alternative strategies, and benchmarks for success presented? if the project is in the early stages of development, will the strategy establish feasibility and will particularly risky aspects be managed? for a phase i application, are there clear, appropriate, measurable goals (milestones) that should be achieved prior to initiating phase ii? have the investigators presented adequate plans to address relevant biological variables, such as sex, for studies in vertebrate animals or human subjects?specific to this announcement:for projects entering at the discovery stage:for projects entering at the development stage:if the project involves human subjects and/or nih-defined clinical research, are the plans to address1) the protection of human subjects from research risks, and2) inclusion (or exclusion) of individuals on the basis of sex/gender, race, and ethnicity, as well as the inclusion or exclusion of individuals of all ages (including children and older adults), justified in terms of the scientific goals and research strategy proposed?in addition, for applications proposing clinical trialsdoes the application adequately address the following, if applicable:study designis the study design justified and appropriate to address primary and secondary outcome variable(s)/endpoints that will be clear, informative and relevant to the hypothesis being tested? is the scientific rationale/premise of the study based on previously well-designed preclinical and/or clinical research? given the methods used to assign participants and deliver interventions, is the study design adequately powered to answer the research question(s), test the proposed hypothesis/hypotheses, and provide interpretable results? is the trial appropriately designed to conduct the research efficiently? are the study populations (size, gender, age, demographic group), proposed intervention arms/dose, and duration of the trial, appropriate and well justified?are potential ethical issues adequately addressed? is the process for obtaining informed consent or assent appropriate? is the eligible population available? are the plans for recruitment outreach, enrollment, retention, handling dropouts, missed visits, and losses to follow-up appropriate to ensure robust data collection? are the planned recruitment timelines feasible and is the plan to monitor accrual adequate? has the need for randomization (or not), masking (if appropriate), controls, and inclusion/exclusion criteria been addressed? are differences addressed, if applicable, in the intervention effect due to sex/gender and race/ethnicity?are the plans to standardize, assure quality of, and monitor adherence to, the trial protocol and data collection or distribution guidelines appropriate? is there a plan to obtain required study agent(s)? does the application propose to use existing available resources, as applicable?data management and statistical analysisare planned analyses and statistical approach appropriate for the proposed study design and methods used to assign participants and deliver interventions? are the procedures for data management and quality control of data adequate at clinical site(s) or at center laboratories, as applicable? have the methods for standardization of procedures for data management to assess the effect of the intervention and quality control been addressed? is there a plan to complete data analysis within the proposed period of the award?specific to this announcement:if the pd/pi is proposing a clinical trial, are the general quality and appropriateness of the proposed study design, including the study population, number of subjects, duration of the clinical study, and safety, pharmacokinetic, and pharmacodynamic endpoints appropriate?environmentwill the scientific environment in which the work will be done contribute to the probability of success? are the institutional support, equipment and other physical resources available to the investigators adequate for the project proposed? will the project benefit from unique features of the scientific environment, subject populations, or collaborative arrangement?in addition, for applications proposing clinical trialsmarket, customer, and competitioncompanyintellectual property (ip)study timelinespecific to applications proposing clinical trialsis the study timeline described in detail, taking into account start-up activities, the anticipated rate of enrollment, and planned follow-up assessment? is the projected timeline feasible and well justified? does the project incorporate efficiencies and utilize existing resources (e.g., ctsas, practice-based research networks, electronic medical records, administrative database, or patient registries) to increase the efficiency of participant enrollment and data collection, as appropriate?are potential challenges and corresponding solutions discussed (e.g., strategies that can be implemented in the event of enrollment shortfalls)?phase ii applicationsfor phase ii applications, how well did the applicant demonstrate progress toward meeting the phase i (or phase i-like) objectives, demonstrating feasibility, and providing a solid foundation for the proposed phase ii activity?not applicablephase i/phase ii fast-track applicationsfor phase i/phase ii fast-track applications, reviewers will consider the following:1. does the phase i application specify clear, appropriate, measurable goals (milestones) that should be achieved prior to initiating phase ii?2. to what extent was the applicant able to obtain letters of interest, additional funding commitments, and/or resources from the private sector or non-sbir/sttr funding sources that would enhance the likelihood for commercialization?protections for human subjectsfor research that involves human subjects but does not involve one of the categories of research that are exempt under 45 cfr part 46, the committee will evaluate the justification for involvement of human subjects and the proposed protections from research risk relating to their participation according to the following five review criteria: 1) risk to subjects, 2) adequacy of protection against risks, 3) potential benefits to the subjects and others, 4) importance of the knowledge to be gained, and 5) data and safety monitoring for clinical trials.for research that involves human subjects and meets the criteria for one or more of the categories of research that are exempt under 45 cfr part 46, the committee will evaluate: 1) the justification for the exemption, 2) human subjects involvement and characteristics, and 3) sources of materials. for additional information on review of the human subjects section, please refer to the guidelines for the review of human subjects.inclusion of women, minorities, and individuals across the lifespanwhen the proposed project involves human subjects and/or nih-defined clinical research, the committee will evaluate the proposed plans for the inclusion (or exclusion) of individuals on the basis of sex/gender, race, and ethnicity, as well as the inclusion (or exclusion) of individuals of all ages (including children and older adults) to determine if it is justified in terms of the scientific goals and research strategy proposed. for additional information on review of the inclusion section, please refer to the guidelines for the review of inclusion in clinical research.vertebrate animalsthe committee will evaluate the involvement of live vertebrate animals as part of the scientific assessment according to the following criteria: (1) description of proposed procedures involving animals, including species, strains, ages, sex, and total number to be used; (2) justifications for the use of animals versus alternative models and for the appropriateness of the species proposed; (3) interventions to minimize discomfort, distress, pain and injury; and (4) justification for euthanasia method if not consistent with the avma guidelines for the euthanasia of animals. reviewers will assess the use of chimpanzees as they would any other application proposing the use of vertebrate animals. for additional information on review of the vertebrate animals section, please refer to the worksheet for review of the vertebrate animal section.biohazardsreviewers will assess whether materials or procedures proposed are potentially hazardous to research personnel and/or the environment, and if needed, determine whether adequate protection is proposed.resubmissionsfor resubmissions, the committee will evaluate the application as now presented, taking into consideration the responses to comments from the previous scientific review group and changes made to the project.phase iib competing renewalsnot applicablerevisionsfor revisions, the committee will consider the appropriateness of the proposed expansion of the scope of the project. if the revision application relates to a specific line of investigation presented in the original application that was not recommended for approval by the committee, then the committee will consider whether the responses to comments from the previous scientific review group are adequate and whether substantial changes are clearly evident.note: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023, the data sharing plan and genomic data sharing plan (gds) as part of the resource sharing plan will not be evaluated at time of review.select agent researchreviewers will assess the information provided in this section of the application, including 1) the select agent(s) to be used in the proposed research, 2) the registration status of all entities where select agent(s) will be used, 3) the procedures that will be used to monitor possession use and transfer of select agent(s), and 4) plans for appropriate biosafety, biocontainment, and security of the select agent(s).resource sharing plansreviewers will comment on whether the following resource sharing plans, or the rationale for not sharing the following types of resources, are reasonable: (1) data sharing plan; (2) sharing model organisms; and (3) genomic data sharing plan.authentication of key biological and/or chemical resources:for projects involving key biological and/or chemical resources, reviewers will comment on the brief plans proposed for identifying and ensuring the validity of those resources.budget and period of supportreviewers will consider whether the budget and the requested period of support are fully justified and reasonable in relation to the proposed research.applications will be evaluated for scientific and technical merit by (an) appropriate scientific review group(s), in accordance with nih peer review policy and procedures, using the stated review criteria. assignment to a scientific review group will be shown in the era commons.applications will be assigned on the basis of established phs referral guidelines to the appropriate nih institute or center. applications will compete for available funds with all other recommended applications submitted in response to this foa. following initial peer review, recommended applications will receive a second level of review by the appropriate national advisory council or board. the following will be considered in making funding decisions:information regarding the disposition of applications is available in the nih grants policy statement.a formal notification in the form of a notice of award (noa) will be provided to the applicant organization for successful applications. the noa signed by the grants management officer is the authorizing document and will be sent via email to the grantee's business official.awardees must comply with any funding restrictions described in section iv.5. funding restrictions. selection of an application for award is not an authorization to begin performance. any costs incurred before receipt of the noa are at the recipient's risk. these costs may be reimbursed only to the extent considered allowable pre-award costs.any application awarded in response to this foa will be subject to terms and conditions found on the award conditions and information for nih grants website. this includes any recent legislation and policy applicable to awards that is highlighted on this website.additionally, ics may specify any special reporting requirements for the proposed clinical trial to be included under ic-specific terms and conditions in the noa. for example: if the proposed clinical trial has elevated risks, ics may require closer programmatic monitoring and it may be necessary to require the awardee to provide more frequent information and data as a term of the award (e.g., to clarify issues, address and evaluate concerns, provide documentation). all additional communications and information related to programmatic monitoring must be documented and incorporated into the official project file. individual awards are based on the application submitted to, and as approved by, the nih and are subject to the ic-specific terms and conditions identified in the noa. clinicaltrials.gov: if an award provides for one or more clinical trials. by law (title viii, section 801 of public law 110-85), the "responsible party" must register and submit results information for certain "applicable clinical trials" on the clinicaltrials.gov protocol registration and results system information website (https://register.clinicaltrials.gov). nih expects registration of all trials whether required under the law or not. for more information, see http://grants.nih.gov/clinicaltrials_fdaaa/institutional review board or independent ethics committee approval: grantee institutions must ensure that the application as well as all protocols are reviewed by their irb or iec. to help ensure the safety of participants enrolled in nih-funded studies, the awardee must provide nih copies of documents related to all major changes in the status of ongoing protocols. data and safety monitoring requirements: the nih policy for data and safety monitoring requires oversight and monitoring of all nih-conducted or -supported human biomedical and behavioral intervention studies (clinical trials) to ensure the safety of participants and the validity and integrity of the data. further information concerning these requirements is found at http://grants.nih.gov/grants/policy/hs/data_safety.htm and in the application instructions (sf424 (r&r) and phs 398).investigational new drug or investigational device exemption requirements: consistent with federal regulations, clinical research projects involving the use of investigational therapeutics, vaccines, or other medical interventions (including licensed products and devices for a purpose other than that for which they were licensed) in humans under a research protocol must be performed under a food and drug administration (fda) investigational new drug (ind) or investigational device exemption (ide).all nih grant and cooperative agreement awards include the nih grants policy statement as part of the noa. for these terms of award, see the nih grants policy statement part ii: terms and conditions of nih grant awards, subpart a: general and part ii: terms and conditions of nih grant awards, subpart b: terms and conditions for specific types of grants, grantees, and activities. more information is provided at award conditions and information for nih grants.recipients of federal financial assistance (ffa) from hhs must administer their programs in compliance with federal civil rights law. this means that recipients of hhs funds must ensure equal access to their programs without regard to a person's race, color, national origin, disability, age and, in some circumstances, sex and religion. this includes ensuring your programs are accessible to persons with limited english proficiency. hhs recognizes that research projects are often limited in scope for many reasons that are nondiscriminatory, such as the principal investigator's scientific interest, funding limitations, recruitment requirements, and other considerations. thus, criteria in research protocols that target or exclude certain populations are warranted where nondiscriminatory justifications establish that such criteria are appropriate with respect to the health or safety of the subjects, the scientific study design, or the purpose of the research.for additional guidance regarding how the provisions apply to nih grant programs, please contact the scientific/research contact that is identified in section vii under agency contacts of this foa. hhs provides general guidance to recipients of ffa on meeting their legal obligation to take reasonable steps to provide meaningful access to their programs by persons with limited english proficiency. please see https://www.hhs.gov/civil-rights/for-individuals/special-topics/limited-english-proficiency/index.html. the hhs office for civil rights also provides guidance on complying with civil rights laws enforced by hhs. please see https://www.hhs.gov/civil-rights/for-individuals/section-1557/index.html; andhttps://www.hhs.gov/civil-rights/for-providers/laws-regulations-guidance/index.html.recipients of ffa also have specific legal obligations for serving qualified individuals with disabilities. please see https://www.hhs.gov/civil-rights/for-individuals/disability/index.html. please contact the hhs office for civil rights for more information about obligations and prohibitions under federal civil rights laws at https://www.hhs.gov/ocr/about-us/contact-us/index.htmlor call 1-800-368-1019 or tdd 1-800-537-7697. also note it is an hhs departmental goal to ensure access to quality, culturally competent care, including long-term services and supports, for vulnerable populations. for further guidance on providing culturally and linguistically appropriate services, recipients should review the national standards for culturally and linguistically appropriate services in health and health care at http://minorityhealth.hhs.gov/omh/browse.aspx?lvl=2&lvlid=53.in accordance with the statutory provisions contained in section 872 of the duncan hunter national defense authorization act of fiscal year 2009 (public law 110-417), nih awards will be subject to the federal awardee performance and integrity information system (fapiis) requirements. fapiis requires federal award making officials to review and consider information about an applicant in the designated integrity and performance system (currently fapiis) prior to making an award. an applicant, at its option, may review information in the designated integrity and performance systems accessible through fapiis and comment on any information about itself that a federal agency previously entered and is currently in fapiis. the federal awarding agency will consider any comments by the applicant, in addition to other information in fapiis, in making a judgement about the applicant's integrity, business ethics, and record of performance under federal awards when completing the review of risk posed by applicants as described in 45 cfr part 75.205 "federal awarding agency review of risk posed by applicants." this provision will apply to all nih grants and cooperative agreements except fellowships.the following special terms of award are in addition to, and not in lieu of, otherwise applicable u.s. office of management and budget (omb) administrative guidelines, u.s. department of health and human services (dhhs) grant administration regulations at 45 cfr parts 75 , and other hhs, phs, and nih grant administration policies. the administrative and funding instrument used for this program will be the cooperative agreement, an "assistance" mechanism (rather than an "acquisition" mechanism), in which substantial nih programmatic involvement with the awardees is anticipated during the performance of the activities. under the cooperative agreement, the nih purpose is to support and stimulate the recipients' activities by involvement in and otherwise working jointly with the award recipients in a partnership role; it is not to assume direction, prime responsibility, or a dominant role in the activities. consistent with this concept, the dominant role and prime responsibility resides with the awardees for the project as a whole, although specific tasks and activities may be shared among the awardees and the nih as defined below.the pd(s)/pi(s) will have the primary responsibility for:all data or materials generated under this u44 award and through collaborations of the pd/pi with other components of the blueprint neurotherapeutics network will be owned by the respective awardee and the data will be considered to be confidential and business privileged information of the awardee, which nevertheless does not affect its obligations to share or deliver the material or data with the government as set forth elsewhere in the grant agreement or regulations.nih staff have substantial scientific and programmatic involvement that is above and beyond the normal stewardship role in awards, as described below:an nih project collaborator will be assigned to the project, with substantial scientific and programmatic involvement that is above and beyond the normal stewardship role in awards:in addition, a program official(s) or ic program director(s) will be responsible for the normal scientific and programmatic stewardship of the award and will be named in the award notice.leadership of the institute/center funding the project will make decisions on project continuation, with input from nih staff and the external oversight committee, based on:areas of joint responsibility include:project lead development team (ldt): the ldt typically will be co-chaired by the pd/pi and an nih-contracted drug development consultant and will include additional members from the pd/pi's group, consultants and nih staff. this team will collaboratively set strategic direction and guide the work flow for the project on an ongoing basis. the ldt will meet approximately every two weeks via teleconference to analyze and interpret data from the pd/pi and contracted laboratories and to formulate the subsequent experimental plan. the ldt will propose milestones and produce progress reports for evaluation by the bpn external oversight committee and program staff as needed.if a clinical trial is performed, the ldt will be replaced by a clinical development team (cdt), which will include the pd/pi, clinical consultants and nih staff. the role and activities of the cdt during clinical development will be comparable to that of the ldt in earlier stages of the project.the members of this collaborative effort are all made aware of the requirement for confidentiality due to the intent of the awardee to pursue commercialization of any qualified outcomes. contractors and consultants of nih will be made aware of the confidential nature of work done under this collaborative effort. the handling and disposition of this confidential data and business privileged information may be covered by the trade secrets act, 18 u.s.c. section 1905.dispute resolutionany disagreements that may arise in scientific or programmatic matters (within the scope of the award) between award recipients and the nih may be brought to dispute resolution. a dispute resolution panel composed of three members will be convened. it will have three members: a designee of the external oversight committee chosen without nih staff voting, one nih designee, and a third designee with expertise in the relevant area who is chosen by the other two; in the case of individual disagreement, the first member may be chosen by the individual awardee. this special dispute resolution procedure does not alter the awardee's right to appeal an adverse action that is otherwise appealable in accordance with phs regulation 42 cfr part 50, subpart d and dhhs regulation 45 cfr part 16.data management and sharingnote: the nih policy for data management and sharing is effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023.consistent with the nih policy for data management and sharing, when data management and sharing is applicable to the award, recipients will be required to adhere to the data management and sharing requirements as outlined in the nih grants policy statement (gps). upon the approval of a data management and sharing plan, it is required for recipients to implement the plan as described. sbir and sttr recipients may retain the rights to data generated during the performance of an sbir or sttr award for up to 20 years after the award date, per the small business innovation research (sbir) and small business technology transfer (sttr) program policy directive. an acceptable data management and sharing plan can reference and incorporate these data rights. further information about sbir and sttr data rights are enumerated in the nih gps.nih requires that sbir/sttr grantees submit the following reports within 120 days of the end of the grant budget period unless the grantee is under an extension. when multiple years are involved, awardees will be required to submit the research performance progress report (rppr) annually and financial statements as required in the nih grants policy statement.failure to submit timely final reports may affect future funding to the organization or awards with the same pd/pi.the federal funding accountability and transparency act of 2006 (transparency act), includes a requirement for awardees of federal grants to report information about first-tier subawards and executive compensation under federal assistance awards issued in fy2011 or later. all awardees of applicable nih grants and cooperative agreements are required to report to the federal subaward reporting system (fsrs) available at www.fsrs.gov on all subawards over $25,000. see the nih grants policy statement for additional information on this reporting requirement.in accordance with the regulatory requirements provided at 45 cfr 75.113 and appendix xii to 45 cfr part 75, recipients that have currently active federal grants, cooperative agreements, and procurement contracts from all federal awarding agencies with a cumulative total value greater than $10,000,000 for any period of time during the period of performance of a federal award, must report and maintain the currency of information reported in the system for award management (sam) about civil, criminal, and administrative proceedings in connection with the award or performance of a federal award that reached final disposition within the most recent five-year period. the recipient must also make semiannual disclosures regarding such proceedings. proceedings information will be made publicly available in the designated integrity and performance system (currently fapiis). this is a statutory requirement under section 872 of public law 110-417, as amended (41 u.s.c. 2313). as required by section 3010 of public law 111-212, all information posted in the designated integrity and performance system on or after april 15, 2011, except past performance reviews required for federal procurement contracts, will be publicly available. full reporting requirements and procedures are found in appendix xii to 45 cfr part 75 – award term and conditions for recipient integrity and performance matters.finding help online:http://grants.nih.gov/support/(preferred method of contact) telephone: 301-402-7469 or 866-504-9552 (toll free)general grants information (questions regarding application instructions, application processes, and nih grant resources) email:grantsinfo@nih.gov(preferred method of contact) telephone: 301-637-3015grants.gov customer support(questions regarding grants.gov registration and workspace) contact center telephone: 800-518-4726 email:support@grants.govsba company registry (questions regarding required registration at the sba company registry and for technical questions or issues) website to email: http://sbir.gov/feedback?type=regcharles cywin, phd national institute of neurological disorders and stroke (ninds) telephone: 301-496-1779 email: charles.cywin@nih.govjerome r. wujek, phd national eye institute (nei) telephone: 301-451-2020 email: wujekjer@mail.nih.govenrique michelotti, ph.d. national institute of mental health (nimh) telephone: 301-443-5415 email: michelottiel@mail.nih.govqi-ying liu, md, msci national institute on alcohol abuse and alcoholism (niaaa) telephone: 301-443-2678 email: liuqiy@mail.nih.govzhaoxia ren, phd national institute of child health and human development (nichd) telephone: 301-402-9340 email: zren@mail.nih.govelena koustova, phd, mba national institute on drug abuse (nida) telephone: 301-496-8768 email: koustovae@mail.nih.govyisong wang, phd national center for complementary and integrative health (nccih) telephone: 301-480-9483 email:yisong.wang@nih.govmelissa ghim, phd national institute of dental and craniofacial research (nidcr) telephone: 301-496-7853 email: melissa.ghim@nih.govlorenzo m. refolo, phd national institute on aging (nia) telephone: (301) 594-7576 email: refolol@mail.nih.govjoel saydoff, scientific review officer national institute of neurological disorders and stroke (ninds) telephone: 301-496-9223 email: joel.saydoff@nih.govchief grants management officer national institute of neurological disorders and stroke (ninds) email: chiefgrantsmanagementofficer@ninds.nih.govthe sbir program is mandated by the small business innovation development act of 1982 (p.l. 97-219), reauthorizing legislation (p.l. 99-443) p.l. 102-564, p.l. 112-81 (sbir/sttr reauthorization act of 2011), as reauthorized and extended under p.l. 114-328, section 1834, and p.l. 115-232. the basic design of the nih sbir program is in accordance with the small business administration (sba) sbir policy directive. weekly toc for this announcement nih funding opportunities and noticesnote: for help accessing pdf, rtf, ms word, excel, powerpoint, audio or video files, see help downloading files.