Tobacco Control Policies to Promote Health Equity (R21 Clinical Trial Optional)
https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/pa-files/PAR-20-303.html
national institutes of health (nih)national cancer institute (nci) all applications to this funding opportunity announcement should fall within the mission of the institutes/centers. the following nih offices may co-fund applications assigned to those institutes/centers. division of program coordination, planning and strategic initiatives, office of disease prevention (odp)all applications to this funding opportunity announcement should fall within the mission of the institutes/centers. the following nih offices may co-fund applications assigned to those institutes/centers.division of program coordination, planning and strategic initiatives, office of disease prevention (odp)r21 exploratory/developmental research grantreissue of par-18-674 - u.s. tobacco control policies to reduce health disparities (r21 clinical trial optional)par-20-302 - tobacco control policies to promote health equity (r01 clinical trial optional)see section iii. 3. additional information on eligibility.93.395the purpose of this funding opportunity announcement (foa) is to support observational or intervention research focused on reducing disparities in tobacco use and secondhand smoke (shs) exposure in the u.s. specifically, this foa aims to stimulate scientific inquiry focused on innovative state and local level tobacco prevention and control policies. the long-term goal of this foa is to reduce disparities in tobacco-related cancers, and in doing so, to promote health equity among all populations. applicants submitting applications related to health economics are encouraged to consult not-od-16-025 to ensure that the research projects align with nih mission priorities in health economics research. 30 days prior to the application due datenovember 12, 2020; thereafter, standard dates apply.all applications are due by 5:00 pm local time of applicant organization. all types of non-aids applications allowed for this funding opportunity announcement are due on the listed date(s). applicants are encouraged to apply early to allow adequate time to make any corrections to errors found in the application during the submission process by the due date.all applications are due by 5:00 pm local time of applicant organization. all types of non-aids applications allowed for this funding opportunity announcement are due on the listed date(s).applicants are encouraged to apply early to allow adequate time to make any corrections to errors found in the application during the submission process by the due date.not applicablestandard dates applystandard dates applystandard dates applynot applicableit is critical that applicants follow the instructions in the research (r) instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide,except where instructed to do otherwise (in this foa or in a notice from nih guide for grants and contracts ).conformance to all requirements (both in the application guide and the foa) is required and strictly enforced. applicants must read and follow all application instructions in the application guide as well as any program-specific instructions noted in section iv. when the program-specific instructions deviate from those in the application guide, follow the program-specific instructions.applications that do not comply with these instructions may be delayed or not accepted for review.there are several options available to submit your application through grants.gov to nih and department of health and human services partners. you must use one of these submission options to access the application forms for this opportunity.purposethis foa seeks applications for research projects to help reduce disparities in tobacco use and secondhand smoke (shs) exposure in the united states and promote health equity through scientific inquiry focused on innovative state and local tobacco prevention and control policies including, but not limited to:the long-term goal of this foa is to reduce tobacco-related cancer health disparities, and in doing so, to promote health equity among all populations. applicants submitting applications related to health economics are encouraged to consult not-od-16-025 to ensure that the research projects align with nih mission priorities in health economics research.applicants may propose projects utilizing tobacco prevention and control strategies to promote health equity among all populations and reduce cancer health disparities in vulnerable populations. all applications must include an overall strategy that builds upon rigorous dissemination and implementation science. investigators should include a well-designed plan for proactively disseminating research findings, including a specific plan for identifying and engaging critical community partners in the research, clearly described roles and responsibilities of key partners and plans regarding the nature and extent of future collaborations. investigators should describe the communication plan and detailed list of responsible parties for decision-making and dissemination of research findings.this foa is proposed in response to the march 2016 report to the nci board of scientific advisors, titled “tobacco control research priorities for the next decade: working group recommendations for 2016-2025.” this report concluded that “research is needed to identify innovative local, state, federal and private sector policy approaches that will advance the goal of eliminating tobacco use and its resultant harms, as well as effective strategies to more completely disseminate these approaches” and that research is needed “to identify and implement tobacco control policies that reduce or eliminate tobacco-related inequalities.” health equity in tobacco prevention and control describes "health equity as the opportunity for everyone to reach their full potential, regardless of any socially determined circumstance. health equity can be achieved in tobacco prevention and control by eliminating differences in tobacco use and exposure to secondhand smoke between certain groups."this foa will utilize the nih exploratory/developmental research grant (r21) mechanism, and is suitable for early phase, pilot, or exploratory/developmental projects. for such projects, preliminary data are not required; however, they may be included if available.investigators who are interested in proposing larger scale, later phase projects based upon strong preliminary data should submit applications in response to the partner foa of identical scope, par-20-302, which uses the research project grant (r01) mechanism.background and rationalethe landmark 1964 surgeon general’s report on smoking and health began a process of public education, programmatic and policy intervention, and social norm change that has revolutionized how most americans view commercial tobacco use, and in particular cigarette smoking. as a result, over the past five decades, the prevalence of cigarette smoking among u.s. adults has markedly declined– from 42.4% in 1965 to 13.7% in 2018. tobacco prevention and control efforts implemented since the 1964 surgeon general’s report are estimated to have prevented 8 million premature smoking-attributable deaths in the united states and to have extended mean life span by 19-20 years, between the years 1964 and 2012.despite this progress, tobacco use remains the leading cause of preventable premature death in the u.s., as it does in most other high-income nations. the overall decline in prevalence masks substantial differences in adult cigarette smoking prevalence among different u.s. subpopulations, related to income, level of educational attainment, race or ethnicity, place of residence, health insurance coverage, the presence or absence of co-morbid mental health conditions and or substance abuse, and other factors. for example, in 2016, cigarette smoking prevalence was 14.3% among those living at or above the federal poverty level, compared with 25.3% among those living below the federal poverty level. in 2018, cigarette smoking prevalence was 29.2% among lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender (lgbt) adults compared with 19.5% among heterosexual adults. similarly, exposure to shs has dropped from about 50% of all nonsmokers in 1999-2000 to about 25% in 2013-2014. however, exposure remains especially high among some groups: approximately half of black nonsmokers are exposed to shs, including seven in 10 black children; and shs exposure is more than twice as high among nonsmokers living below the poverty level, compared with those living above the poverty level (48% vs. 21%, respectively).disparities in smoking prevalence are increasingly reflected in differences in lung cancer incidence and mortality. for example, in 2016, the age-adjusted incidence of lung and bronchus cancer per 100,000 persons ranged from 86.8 in kentucky to 25.1 in utah. a 2016 editorial in jama oncology notes the close link between tobacco use rates and overall cancer mortality, stating, “the variation [in overall cancer death rates] across states today is greater than the overall improvement in mortality over the past 40 years: cancer mortality varies as much as 30% across states, and is strongly associated with state-level tobacco use.” differences in tobacco use are also strongly linked to differences in overall mortality between population subgroups. for example, in the u.s., england, wales, canada, and poland, more than half the difference in mortality between men of high vs. low social strata is due to differences in the risk of dying from smoking at ages 35-69. a continued focus on tobacco prevention and control efforts at the population level can help reduce tobacco use, as well as the incidence of lung and other cancers. for example, in california, both tobacco use and lung cancer mortality have declined faster than the national average, and this is expected to continue.nci tobacco control monograph 22, a socioecological approach to addressing tobacco-related health disparities, concludes that knowledge of tobacco-related health disparities (trhd) is "enhanced by considering the interaction of factors at the individual, interpersonal, community or neighborhood, and societal or policy levels, and by considering the impact of diverse factors across the tobacco use continuum over the life span. additional research to understand and reduce trhd and promote health equity is essential to reducing the burden of tobacco use and tobacco-related cancer in the united states."healthy people 2000 established the goal of reducing health disparities and expanded it to eliminating health disparities in healthy people 2010. healthy people 2020 (hp2020) includes addressing both health equity and health disparity and defines them as follows: health equity: “attainment of the highest level of health for all people. achieving health equity requires valuing everyone equally with focused and ongoing societal efforts to address avoidable inequalities, historical and contemporary injustices, and the elimination of health and health care disparities.” health disparity is a particular type of health difference that is closely linked with social, economic, and or environmental disadvantage, and that adversely affects groups of people who have systematically experienced greater obstacles to health based on their racial or ethnic group; religion; ses; gender; age; mental health; disability; sexual orientation or gender identity; geographic location; or other characteristics historically linked to discrimination or exclusion. the hp 2020 goal combines both concepts to achieve health equity, eliminate disparities, and improve the health of all groups.key challengesevidence-based policy approaches to tobacco prevention and control have the potential to further decrease the health and economic burdens of tobacco use and to reduce the wide disparities in tobacco use and tobacco-caused cancers across various subpopulations in the u.s. policy interventions prioritize population-level outcomes by seeking to change the social-environmental context in which decisions about tobacco use are made they may be especially valuable for reducing disparities in tobacco use and promoting health equity among all populations because of their broad reach, ability to change social norms, and because they can be implemented at much lower cost than interventions that target individuals. however, gaps in our understanding of tobacco control policies remain, especially as they relate to the ability of new and existing policies to reduce disparities in tobacco use and tobacco-related cancers and to promote health equity across all populations.the nation’s tobacco prevention and control environment and policy landscape are increasingly complex and rapidly changing. key challenges include the following:we understand in this environment of the covid-19 pandemic that the broader health, social, cultural and economic conditions may impact the adoption and implementation of tobacco prevention and control policies. many of the same populations who are most at risk for tobacco use and tobacco-related cancers are the same people who are disproportionately bearing the health burden of the current covid-19 pandemic. applications should reflect current conditions and may consider interactions between tobacco prevention and control policies and factors related to the pandemic.research objectivesthe central charge of this foa is to understand how to improve the effectiveness of existing tobacco prevention and control policy strategies as well as to study new policy approaches to reducing disparities in commercial tobacco use and shs exposure. the knowledge generated will contribute to reducing disparities in tobacco-related cancers and promoting health equity for all populations.primary research topics that fall within the scope of this foa include, but are not limited to the following:1. comprehensive smoke free policies (e.g., how to increase adoption and implementation of comprehensive smoke free policies in workplaces, multi-unit housing, homes, vehicles, parks, etc.);2. policies to reduce the appeal of tobacco products through advertising and marketing restrictions at the state or local level, or reduce the demand for tobacco products with various pricing interventions;3. policies related to coverage for tobacco dependence treatment (e.g., state, local and or federal policies affect access to, affordability, and use of cessation services among high risk populations, and the impact of surcharges on tobacco users);4. overarching policy environment (e.g. studies that examine the dynamic interplay of different tobacco prevention and control policies on tobacco use, how tobacco control policies may work together to reduce tobacco use among both youth and adults, focusing on how to accelerate progress in communities that have experienced slower declines in tobacco use, etc.); and5. innovative dissemination and implementation of research findings.office of disease prevention- shared interestdata harmonization for substance abuse and addiction via the phenx toolkit: in order to encourage data integration and replication, the participating institutes and centers encourage investigators involved in human-subjects studies to employ a common set of tools and resources that will promote the collection of comparable data across studies. one way to do so is to incorporate the measures from the core and specialty collections, which are available in the substance abuse and addiction collection and the tobacco regulatory research collection of the phenx toolkit (www.phenxtoolkit.org). please see not-da-12-008 (https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/notice-files/not-da-12-008.html) and not-od-17-034 (https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/notice-files/not-od-17-034.html) for further details.data harmonization for social determinants of health (sdoh) via the phenx toolkit: investigators involved in human-subject studies are encouraged to employ a common set of tools and resources that will promote the collection of comparable data on sdoh across studies. in particular, human-subject studies should incorporate sdoh measures from the core and specialty collections that are available in the social determinants of health collection of the phenx toolkit (www.phenxtoolkit.org).design, analysis, and sample size considerations for studies to evaluate policiesinvestigators who wish to evaluate the effect of a policy on a health-related biomedical or behavioral outcome may propose a study design in which groups that are subject to the policy are compared to groups that are not subject to the policy. designs that might be proposed include a parallel group- or cluster-randomized trial, a stepped-wedge group- or cluster randomized trial, a multiple baseline design, or another quasi-experimental design. whenever participants are assigned in groups or clusters (e.g., families, clinics, schools, worksites, communities, counties, states), or participants receive some part of their intervention in a group or cluster, and observations on individual participants are analyzed for between-group effects, special methods are required for analysis and sample size. applicants will need to show that their methods are appropriate given their plans for assignment of participants and delivery of interventions. additional information is available at https://researchmethodsresources.nih.gov/. applications not responsive to this foasee section viii. other information for award authorities and regulations.grant: a support mechanism providing money, property, or both to an eligible entity to carry out an approved project or activity.the oer glossary and the sf424 (r&r) application guide provide details on these application types. only those application types listed here are allowed for this foa.need help determining whether you are doing a clinical trial?the number of awards is contingent upon nih appropriations and the submission of a sufficient number of meritorious applicationsthe combined budget for direct costs for the two-year project period may not exceed $275,000. no more than $200,000 may be requested in a single year.the maximum project period is two years.nih grants policies as described in the nih grants policy statement will apply to the applications submitted and awards made from this foa.higher education institutionsthe following types of higher education institutions are always encouraged to apply for nih support as public or private institutions of higher education:nonprofits other than institutions of higher educationfor-profit organizationslocal governmentsfederal governmentsothernon-domestic (non-u.s.) entities (foreign institutions) are not eligible to apply.non-domestic (non-u.s.) components of u.s. organizations are not eligible to apply.foreign components, as defined in the nih grants policy statement, are not allowed.applicant organizationsapplicant organizations must complete and maintain the following registrations as described in the sf 424 (r&r) application guide to be eligible to apply for or receive an award. all registrations must be completed prior to the application being submitted. registration can take 6 weeks or more, so applicants should begin the registration process as soon as possible. the nih policy on late submission of grant applications states that failure to complete registrations in advance of a due date is not a valid reason for a late submission.program directors/principal investigators (pd(s)/pi(s))all pd(s)/pi(s) must have an era commons account. pd(s)/pi(s) should work with their organizational officials to either create a new account or to affiliate their existing account with the applicant organization in era commons. if the pd/pi is also the organizational signing official, they must have two distinct era commons accounts, one for each role. obtaining an era commons account can take up to 2 weeks.any individual(s) with the skills, knowledge, and resources necessary to carry out the proposed research as the program director(s)/principal investigator(s) (pd(s)/pi(s)) is invited to work with his/her organization to develop an application for support. individuals from underrepresented racial and ethnic groups as well as individuals with disabilities are always encouraged to apply for nih support.for institutions/organizations proposing multiple pds/pis, visit the multiple program director/principal investigator policy and submission details in the senior/key person profile (expanded) component of the sf424 (r&r) application guide.this foa does not require cost sharing as defined in the nih grants policy statement.applicant organizations may submit more than one application, provided that each application is scientifically distinct.the nih will not accept duplicate or highly overlapping applications under review at the same time. this means that the nih will not accept:the application forms package specific to this opportunity must be accessed through assist, grants.gov workspace or an institutional system-to-system solution. links to apply using assist or grants.gov workspace are available in part 1 of this foa. see your administrative office for instructions if you plan to use an institutional system-to-system solution.letter of intentletter of intentalthough a letter of intent is not required, is not binding, and does not enter into the review of a subsequent application, the information that it contains allows ic staff to estimate the potential review workload and plan the review.by the date listed in part 1. overview information, prospective applicants are asked to submit a letter of intent that includes the following information:the letter of intent should be sent to:margaret mayer, phd, mph national cancer institute (nci) telephone: 240-276-6433 email: margaret.mayer@nih.govall page limitations described in the sf424 application guide and the table of page limits must be followed.note: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023, the data management and sharing (dms) plan will be attached in the other plan(s) attachment in forms-h and subsequent application forms packages. for due dates on or before january 24, 2023, the data sharing plan and genomic data sharing plan gds) will continue to be attached in the resource sharing plan attachment in forms-g application forms packages.the following section supplements the instructions found in the sf424 (r&r) application guide and should be used for preparing an application to this foa.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.other plan(s):note: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023, the data management and sharing plan will be attached in the other plan(s) attachment in forms-h and subsequent application forms packages. for due dates on or before january 24, 2023, the data sharing plan and genomic data sharing plan gds) will continue to be attached in the resource sharing plan attachment in forms-g application forms packages.all applicants planning research (funded or conducted in whole or in part by nih) that results in the generation of scientific data are required to comply with the instructions for the data management and sharing plan. all applications, regardless of the amount of direct costs requested for any one year, must address a data management and sharing plan.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed, with the following additional instructions: dissemination and implementation science: all applications must include an overall strategy that builds upon rigorous dissemination and implementation science. investigators should include a well-designed plan for proactively disseminating research findings, including a specific plan for identifying and engaging critical community partners in the research, clearly described roles and responsibilities of key partners and plans regarding the nature and extent of future collaborations. investigators should describe the communication plan and detailed list of responsible parties for decision-making and dissemination of research findings.research strategy: the sub-sections indicated below should address the following specific aspects.innovation:explain how the overall strategy employs innovative approaches that build upon rigorous dissemination and implementation science.approach:the description in the sub-section must address and provide the necessary supporting details explaining how the proposed project will meet the following key dissemination and implementation science requirements:resource sharing plan: individuals are required to comply with the instructions for the resource sharing plans as provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.the following modifications also apply:only limited appendix materials are allowed. follow all instructions for the appendix as described in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.when involving human subjects research, clinical research, and/or nih-defined clinical trials (and when applicable, clinical trials research experience) follow all instructions for the phs human subjects and clinical trials information form in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, with the following additional instructions:if you answered “yes” to the question “are human subjects involved?” on the r&r other project information form, you must include at least one human subjects study record using the study record: phs human subjects and clinical trials information form or delayed onset study record.study record: phs human subjects and clinical trials informationall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.note: delayed onset does not apply to a study that can be described but will not start immediately (i.e., delayed start).all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.see part 1. section iii.1 for information regarding the requirement for obtaining a unique entity identifier and for completing and maintaining active registrations in system for award management (sam), nato commercial and government entity (ncage) code (if applicable), era commons, and grants.govpart i. overview information contains information about key dates and times. applicants are encouraged to submit applications before the due date to ensure they have time to make any application corrections that might be necessary for successful submission. when a submission date falls on a weekend or federal holiday, the application deadline is automatically extended to the next business day.organizations must submit applications to grants.gov (the online portal to find and apply for grants across all federal agencies). applicants must then complete the submission process by tracking the status of the application in the era commons, nih’s electronic system for grants administration. nih and grants.gov systems check the application against many of the application instructions upon submission. errors must be corrected and a changed/corrected application must be submitted to grants.gov on or before the application due date and time. if a changed/corrected application is submitted after the deadline, the application will be considered late. applications that miss the due date and time are subjected to the nih policy on late application submission.applicants are responsible for viewing their application before the due date in the era commons to ensure accurate and successful submission.information on the submission process and a definition of on-time submission are provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.this initiative is not subject to intergovernmental review.all nih awards are subject to the terms and conditions, cost principles, and other considerations described in the nih grants policy statement.pre-award costs are allowable only as described in the nih grants policy statement.applications must be submitted electronically following the instructions described in the sf424 (r&r) application guide. paper applications will not be accepted.applicants must complete all required registrations before the application due date. section iii. eligibility information contains information about registration.for assistance with your electronic application or for more information on the electronic submission process, visit how to apply – application guide. if you encounter a system issue beyond your control that threatens your ability to complete the submission process on-time, you must follow the dealing with system issues guidance. for assistance with application submission, contact the application submission contacts in section vii.important reminders:all pd(s)/pi(s) must include their era commons id in the credential field of the senior/key person profile component of the sf424(r&r) application package. failure to register in the commons and to include a valid pd/pi commons id in the credential field will prevent the successful submission of an electronic application to nih. see section iii of this foa for information on registration requirements.the applicant organization must ensure that the duns number it provides on the application is the same number used in the organization’s profile in the era commons and for the system for award management. additional information may be found in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.see more tips for avoiding common errors.upon receipt, applications will be evaluated for completeness and compliance with application instructions by the center for scientific review and responsiveness by components of participating organizations, nih. applications that are incomplete, non-compliant and/or nonresponsive will not be reviewed.applicants are required to follow the instructions for post-submission materials, as described in the policy. any instructions provided here are in addition to the instructions in the policy.note: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023, the data sharing plan and genomic data sharing plan (gds) as part of the resource sharing plan will not be evaluated at time of review.only the review criteria described below will be considered in the review process. applications submitted to the nih in support of the nih mission are evaluated for scientific and technical merit through the nih peer review system.for this particular announcement, note the following:the r21 exploratory/developmental grant supports investigation of novel scientific ideas or new model systems, tools, or technologies that have the potential for significant impact on biomedical or biobehavioral research. an r21 grant application need not have extensive background material or preliminary information. accordingly, reviewers will emphasize the conceptual framework, the level of innovation, and the potential to significantly advance our knowledge or understanding. appropriate justification for the proposed work can be provided through literature citations, data from other sources, or, when available, from investigator-generated data. preliminary data are not required for r21 applications; however, they may be included if available.in addition, for applications involving clinical trials:a proposed clinical trial application may include study design, methods, and intervention that are not by themselves innovative but address important questions or unmet needs. additionally, the results of the clinical trial may indicate that further clinical development of the intervention is unwarranted or lead to new avenues of scientific investigation.reviewers will provide an overall impact score to reflect their assessment of the likelihood for the project to exert a sustained, powerful influence on the research field(s) involved, in consideration of the following review criteria and additional review criteria (as applicable for the project proposed).reviewers will consider each of the review criteria below in the determination of scientific merit, and give a separate score for each. an application does not need to be strong in all categories to be judged likely to have major scientific impact. for example, a project that by its nature is not innovative may be essential to advance a field.significancedoes the project address an important problem or a critical barrier to progress in the field? is the prior research that serves as the key support for the proposed project rigorous? if the aims of the project are achieved, how will scientific knowledge, technical capability, and/or clinical practice be improved? how will successful completion of the aims change the concepts, methods, technologies, treatments, services, or preventative interventions that drive this field?in addition, for applications involving clinical trials:are the scientific rationale and need for a clinical trial to test the proposed hypothesis or intervention well supported by preliminary data, clinical and/or preclinical studies, or information in the literature or knowledge of biological mechanisms? for trials focusing on clinical or public health endpoints, is this clinical trial necessary for testing the safety, efficacy or effectiveness of an intervention that could lead to a change in clinical practice, community behaviors or health care policy? for trials focusing on mechanistic, behavioral, physiological, biochemical, or other biomedical endpoints, is the trial needed to advance scientific understanding?investigator(s)are the pd(s)/pi(s), collaborators, and other researchers well suited to the project? if early stage investigators or those in the early stages of independent careers, do they have appropriate experience and training? if established, have they demonstrated an ongoing record of accomplishments that have advanced their field(s)? if the project is collaborative or multi-pd/pi, do the investigators have complementary and integrated expertise; are their leadership approach, governance and organizational structure appropriate for the project?in addition, for applications involving clinical trials: with regard to the proposed leadership for the project, do the pd/pi(s) and key personnel have the expertise, experience, and ability to organize, manage and implement the proposed clinical trial and meet milestones and timelines? do they have appropriate expertise in study coordination, data management and statistics? for a multicenter trial, is the organizational structure appropriate and does the application identify a core of potential center investigators and staffing for a coordinating center?innovationdoes the application challenge and seek to shift current research or clinical practice paradigms by utilizing novel theoretical concepts, approaches or methodologies, instrumentation, or interventions? are the concepts, approaches or methodologies, instrumentation, or interventions novel to one field of research or novel in a broad sense? is a refinement, improvement, or new application of theoretical concepts, approaches or methodologies, instrumentation, or interventions proposed?in addition, for applications involving clinical trials: does the design/research plan include innovative elements, as appropriate, that enhance its sensitivity, potential for information or potential to advance scientific knowledge or clinical practice?are the overall strategy, methodology, and analyses well-reasoned and appropriate to accomplish the specific aims of the project? have the investigators included plans to address weaknesses in the rigor of prior research that serves as the key support for the proposed project? have the investigators presented strategies to ensure a robust and unbiased approach, as appropriate for the work proposed? are potential problems, alternative strategies, and benchmarks for success presented? if the project is in the early stages of development, will the strategy establish feasibility and will particularly risky aspects be managed? have the investigators presented adequate plans to address relevant biological variables, such as sex, for studies in vertebrate animals or human subjects?specific to this foa: if the aims of the proposed project are achieved, how will the research findings be disseminated to relevant communities? how appropriate are the applicant’s plan for identifying and engaging critical community partners in research including clearly described roles and responsibilities of key partners; and plans regarding the nature and extent of future collaborations?does the application include a clearly articulated communication plan and detailed list of responsible parties for decision-making and dissemination of research findings, and how likely are these plans to ensure that they reach the intended audiences?in addition, for applications involving clinical trials: does the application adequately address the following, if applicable:study designis the study design justified and appropriate to address primary and secondary outcome variable(s)/endpoints that will be clear, informative and relevant to the hypothesis being tested? is the scientific rationale/premise of the study based on previously well-designed preclinical and/or clinical research? given the methods used to assign participants and deliver interventions, is the study design adequately powered to answer the research question(s), test the proposed hypothesis/hypotheses, and provide interpretable results? is the trial appropriately designed to conduct the research efficiently? are the study populations (size, gender, age, demographic group), proposed intervention arms/dose, and duration of the trial, appropriate and well justified?are potential ethical issues adequately addressed? is the process for obtaining informed consent or assent appropriate? is the eligible population available? are the plans for recruitment outreach, enrollment, retention, handling dropouts, missed visits, and losses to follow-up appropriate to ensure robust data collection? are the planned recruitment timelines feasible and is the plan to monitor accrual adequate? has the need for randomization (or not), masking (if appropriate), controls, and inclusion/exclusion criteria been addressed? are differences addressed, if applicable, in the intervention effect due to sex/gender and race/ethnicity?are the plans to standardize, assure quality of, and monitor adherence to, the trial protocol and data collection or distribution guidelines appropriate? is there a plan to obtain required study agent(s)? does the application propose to use existing available resources, as applicable?data management and statistical analysisare planned analyses and statistical approach appropriate for the proposed study design and methods used to assign participants and deliver interventions? are the procedures for data management and quality control of data adequate at clinical site(s) or at center laboratories, as applicable? have the methods for standardization of procedures for data management to assess the effect of the intervention and quality control been addressed? is there a plan to complete data analysis within the proposed period of the award?if the project involves human subjects and/or nih-defined clinical research, are the plans to address 1) the protection of human subjects from research risks, and 2) inclusion (or exclusion) of individuals on the basis of sex/gender, race, and ethnicity, as well as the inclusion or exclusion of individuals of all ages (including children and older adults), justified in terms of the scientific goals and research strategy proposed?environmentwill the scientific environment in which the work will be done contribute to the probability of success? are the institutional support, equipment and other physical resources available to the investigators adequate for the project proposed? will the project benefit from unique features of the scientific environment, subject populations, or collaborative arrangements?in addition, for applications involving clinical trials: if proposed, are the administrative, data coordinating, enrollment and laboratory/testing centers, appropriate for the trial proposed? does the application adequately address the capability and ability to conduct the trial at the proposed site(s) or centers? are the plans to add or drop enrollment centers, as needed, appropriate? if international site(s) is/are proposed, does the application adequately address the complexity of executing the clinical trial? if multi-sites/centers, is there evidence of the ability of the individual site or center to: (1) enroll the proposed numbers; (2) adhere to the protocol; (3) collect and transmit data in an accurate and timely fashion; and, (4) operate within the proposed organizational structure?as applicable for the project proposed, reviewers will evaluate the following additional items while determining scientific and technical merit, and in providing an overall impact score, but will not give separate scores for these items.study timelinespecific for applications involving clinical trialsis the study timeline described in detail, taking into account start-up activities, the anticipated rate of enrollment, and planned follow-up assessment? is the projected timeline feasible and well justified? does the project incorporate efficiencies and utilize existing resources (e.g., ctsas, practice-based research networks, electronic medical records, administrative database, or patient registries) to increase the efficiency of participant enrollment and data collection, as appropriate?are potential challenges and corresponding solutions discussed (e.g., strategies that can be implemented in the event of enrollment shortfalls)?protections for human subjectsfor research that involves human subjects but does not involve one of the categories of research that are exempt under 45 cfr part 46, the committee will evaluate the justification for involvement of human subjects and the proposed protections from research risk relating to their participation according to the following five review criteria: 1) risk to subjects, 2) adequacy of protection against risks, 3) potential benefits to the subjects and others, 4) importance of the knowledge to be gained, and 5) data and safety monitoring for clinical trials.for research that involves human subjects and meets the criteria for one or more of the categories of research that are exempt under 45 cfr part 46, the committee will evaluate: 1) the justification for the exemption, 2) human subjects involvement and characteristics, and 3) sources of materials. for additional information on review of the human subjects section, please refer to the guidelines for the review of human subjects.inclusion of women, minorities, and individuals across the lifespanwhen the proposed project involves human subjects and/or nih-defined clinical research, the committee will evaluate the proposed plans for the inclusion (or exclusion) of individuals on the basis of sex/gender, race, and ethnicity, as well as the inclusion (or exclusion) of individuals of all ages (including children and older adults) to determine if it is justified in terms of the scientific goals and research strategy proposed. for additional information on review of the inclusion section, please refer to the guidelines for the review of inclusion in clinical research.vertebrate animalsthe committee will evaluate the involvement of live vertebrate animals as part of the scientific assessment according to the following criteria: (1) description of proposed procedures involving animals, including species, strains, ages, sex, and total number to be used; (2) justifications for the use of animals versus alternative models and for the appropriateness of the species proposed; (3) interventions to minimize discomfort, distress, pain and injury; and (4) justification for euthanasia method if not consistent with the avma guidelines for the euthanasia of animals. reviewers will assess the use of chimpanzees as they would any other application proposing the use of vertebrate animals. for additional information on review of the vertebrate animals section, please refer to the worksheet for review of the vertebrate animal section.biohazardsreviewers will assess whether materials or procedures proposed are potentially hazardous to research personnel and/or the environment, and if needed, determine whether adequate protection is proposed.resubmissionsfor resubmissions, the committee will evaluate the application as now presented, taking into consideration the responses to comments from the previous scientific review group and changes made to the project.renewalsnot applicablerevisionsnot applicablenote: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023, the data sharing plan and genomic data sharing plan (gds) as part of the resource sharing plan will not be evaluated at time of review.as applicable for the project proposed, reviewers will consider each of the following items, but will not give scores for these items, and should not consider them in providing an overall impact score.applications from foreign organizationsnot applicableselect agent researchreviewers will assess the information provided in this section of the application, including 1) the select agent(s) to be used in the proposed research, 2) the registration status of all entities where select agent(s) will be used, 3) the procedures that will be used to monitor possession use and transfer of select agent(s), and 4) plans for appropriate biosafety, biocontainment, and security of the select agent(s).resource sharing plansreviewers will comment on whether the following resource sharing plans, or the rationale for not sharing the following types of resources, are reasonable: (1) data sharing plan; (2) sharing model organisms; and (3) genomic data sharing plan (gds).authentication of key biological and/or chemical resources:for projects involving key biological and/or chemical resources, reviewers will comment on the brief plans proposed for identifying and ensuring the validity of those resources.budget and period of supportreviewers will consider whether the budget and the requested period of support are fully justified and reasonable in relation to the proposed research.applications will be evaluated for scientific and technical merit by (an) appropriate scientific review group(s) convened by center for scientific review, in accordance with nih peer review policy and procedures, using the stated review criteria. assignment to a scientific review group will be shown in the era commons.as part of the scientific peer review, all applications will receive a written critique.applications may undergo a selection process in which only those applications deemed to have the highest scientific and technical merit (generally the top half of applications under review) will be discussed and assigned an overall impact score.information regarding the disposition of applications is available in the nih grants policy statement.a formal notification in the form of a notice of award (noa) will be provided to the applicant organization for successful applications. the noa signed by the grants management officer is the authorizing document and will be sent via email to the grantee’s business official.awardees must comply with any funding restrictions described in section iv.5. funding restrictions. selection of an application for award is not an authorization to begin performance. any costs incurred before receipt of the noa are at the recipient's risk. these costs may be reimbursed only to the extent considered allowable pre-award costs.any application awarded in response to this foa will be subject to terms and conditions found on the award conditions and information for nih grants website. this includes any recent legislation and policy applicable to awards that is highlighted on this website.individual awards are based on the application submitted to, and as approved by, the nih and are subject to the ic-specific terms and conditions identified in the noa.clinicaltrials.gov: if an award provides for one or more clinical trials. by law (title viii, section 801 of public law 110-85), the "responsible party" must register and submit results information for certain “applicable clinical trials” on the clinicaltrials.gov protocol registration and results system information website (https://register.clinicaltrials.gov). nih expects registration and results reporting of all trials whether required under the law or not. for more information, see https://grants.nih.gov/policy/clinical-trials/reporting/index.htminstitutional review board or independent ethics committee approval: grantee institutions must ensure that all protocols are reviewed by their irb or iec. to help ensure the safety of participants enrolled in nih-funded studies, the awardee must provide nih copies of documents related to all major changes in the status of ongoing protocols. data and safetymonitoring requirements: the nih policy for data and safety monitoring requires oversight and monitoring of all nih-conducted or -supported human biomedical and behavioral intervention studies (clinical trials) to ensure the safety of participants and the validity and integrity of the data. further information concerning these requirements is found at http://grants.nih.gov/grants/policy/hs/data_safety.htm and in the application instructions (sf424 (r&r) and phs 398).investigational new drug or investigational device exemption requirements: consistent with federal regulations, clinical research projects involving the use of investigational therapeutics, vaccines, or other medical interventions (including licensed products and devices for a purpose other than that for which they were licensed) in humans under a research protocol must be performed under a food and drug administration (fda) investigational new drug (ind) or investigational device exemption (ide).all nih grant and cooperative agreement awards include the nih grants policy statement as part of the noa. for these terms of award, see the nih grants policy statement part ii: terms and conditions of nih grant awards, subpart a: general and part ii: terms and conditions of nih grant awards, subpart b: terms and conditions for specific types of grants, grantees, and activities. more information is provided at award conditions and information for nih grants.recipients of federal financial assistance (ffa) from hhs must administer their programs in compliance with federal civil rights laws that prohibit discrimination on the basis of race, color, national origin, disability, age and, in some circumstances, religion, conscience, and sex. this includes ensuring programs are accessible to persons with limited english proficiency. the hhs office for civil rights provides guidance on complying with civil rights laws enforced by hhs. please see https://www.hhs.gov/civil-rights/for-providers/provider-obligations/index.html and http://www.hhs.gov/ocr/civilrights/understanding/section1557/index.html.hhs recognizes that research projects are often limited in scope for many reasons that are nondiscriminatory, such as the principal investigator’s scientific interest, funding limitations, recruitment requirements, and other considerations. thus, criteria in research protocols that target or exclude certain populations are warranted where nondiscriminatory justifications establish that such criteria are appropriate with respect to the health or safety of the subjects, the scientific study design, or the purpose of the research. for additional guidance regarding how the provisions apply to nih grant programs, please contact the scientific/research contact that is identified in section vii under agency contacts of this foa.please contact the hhs office for civil rights for more information about obligations and prohibitions under federal civil rights laws at https://www.hhs.gov/ocr/about-us/contact-us/index.html or call 1-800-368-1019 or tdd 1-800-537-7697.in accordance with the statutory provisions contained in section 872 of the duncan hunter national defense authorization act of fiscal year 2009 (public law 110-417), nih awards will be subject to the federal awardee performance and integrity information system (fapiis) requirements. fapiis requires federal award making officials to review and consider information about an applicant in the designated integrity and performance system (currently fapiis) prior to making an award. an applicant, at its option, may review information in the designated integrity and performance systems accessible through fapiis and comment on any information about itself that a federal agency previously entered and is currently in fapiis. the federal awarding agency will consider any comments by the applicant, in addition to other information in fapiis, in making a judgement about the applicant’s integrity, business ethics, and record of performance under federal awards when completing the review of risk posed by applicants as described in 45 cfr part 75.205 “federal awarding agency review of risk posed by applicants.” this provision will apply to all nih grants and cooperative agreements except fellowships.not applicabledata management and sharingnote: the nih policy for data management and sharing is effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023.consistent with the nih policy for data management and sharing, when data management and sharing is applicable to the award, recipients will be required to adhere to the data management and sharing requirements as outlined in the nih grants policy statement. upon the approval of a data management and sharing plan, it is required for recipients to implement the plan as described.a final rppr, invention statement, and the expenditure data portion of the federal financial report are required for closeout of an award, as described in the nih grants policy statement.the federal funding accountability and transparency act of 2006 (transparency act), includes a requirement for awardees of federal grants to report information about first-tier subawards and executive compensation under federal assistance awards issued in fy2011 or later. all awardees of applicable nih grants and cooperative agreements are required to report to the federal subaward reporting system (fsrs) available at www.fsrs.gov on all subawards over $25,000. see the nih grants policy statement for additional information on this reporting requirement.in accordance with the regulatory requirements provided at 45 cfr 75.113 and appendix xii to 45 cfr part 75, recipients that have currently active federal grants, cooperative agreements, and procurement contracts from all federal awarding agencies with a cumulative total value greater than $10,000,000 for any period of time during the period of performance of a federal award, must report and maintain the currency of information reported in the system for award management (sam) about civil, criminal, and administrative proceedings in connection with the award or performance of a federal award that reached final disposition within the most recent five-year period. the recipient must also make semiannual disclosures regarding such proceedings. proceedings information will be made publicly available in the designated integrity and performance system (currently fapiis). this is a statutory requirement under section 872 of public law 110-417, as amended (41 u.s.c. 2313). as required by section 3010 of public law 111-212, all information posted in the designated integrity and performance system on or after april 15, 2011, except past performance reviews required for federal procurement contracts, will be publicly available. full reporting requirements and procedures are found in appendix xii to 45 cfr part 75 – award term and conditions for recipient integrity and performance matters.we encourage inquiries concerning this funding opportunity and welcome the opportunity to answer questions from potential applicants.era service desk (questions regarding assist, era commons, application errors and warnings, documenting system problems that threaten submission by the due date, and post-submission issues)finding help online: http://grants.nih.gov/support/ (preferred method of contact) telephone: 301-402-7469 or 866-504-9552 (toll free)general grants information (questions regarding application instructions, application processes, and nih grant resources) email: grantsinfo@nih.gov (preferred method of contact) telephone: 301-637-3015grants.gov customer support (questions regarding grants.gov registration and workspace) contact center telephone: 800-518-4726 email: support@grants.govmargaret mayer, phd, mph national cancer institute (nci) telephone: 240-276-6433 email: margaret.mayer@nih.govannette kaufman, phd, mph national cancer institute telephone: 301-467-8521 email: kaufmana@mail.nih.govmary l. garcia-cazarin, m.s., ph.d.tobacco regulatory science programoffice of disease preventiontelephone: 301-451-2937email: mary.garcia-cazarin@nih.govjacinta bronte-tinkew, phd center for scientific review (csr) telephone: 301-896-0009 email: jacinta.bronte-tinkew@nih.govrebecca brightful national cancer institute (nci) telephone: 301-631-3011 email:brightfr@mail.nih.govrecently issued trans-nih policy notices may affect your application submission. a full list of policy notices published by nih is provided in the nih guide for grants and contracts. all awards are subject to the terms and conditions, cost principles, and other considerations described in the nih grants policy statement.awards are made under the authorization of sections 301 and 405 of the public health service act as amended (42 usc 241 and 284) and under federal regulations 42 cfr part 52 and 45 cfr part 75. weekly toc for this announcement nih funding opportunities and noticesnote: for help accessing pdf, rtf, ms word, excel, powerpoint, audio or video files, see help downloading files.