NINDS Research Education Opportunities (R25 Clinical Trial Not Allowed)
https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/pa-files/PAR-21-256.html
national institutes of health (nih)national institute of neurological disorders and stroke (ninds)r25 education projectsreissue of par-18-782not-od-23-012 reminder: forms-h grant application forms and instructions must be used for due dates on or after january 25, 2023 - new grant application instructions now availablenot-od-22-190 - adjustments to nih and ahrq grant application due dates between september 22 and september 30, 2022october 28, 2021 - reminder: forms-g grant application forms & instructions must be used for due dates on or after january 25, 2022 - new grant application instructions now available. see notice not-od-22-018.september 13, 2021 - updates to the non-discrimination legal requirements for nih recipients. see notice not-od-21-181.august 5, 2021 - new nih "forms-g" grant application forms and instructions coming for due dates on or after january 25, 2022. see notice not-od-21-169.august 5, 2021 - update: notification of upcoming change in federal-wide unique entity identifier requirements. see notice not-od-21-170april 20, 2021 - expanding requirement for era commons ids to all senior/key personnel. see notice not-od-21-109not-od-19-109 - requirement for orcid ids for individuals supported by research training, fellowship, research education, and career development awards beginning in fy 2020.nonesee section iii. 3. additional information on eligibility.93.853the nih research education program (r25) supports research education activities in the mission areas of the nih. the overarching goal of this r25 program is to support educational activities that complement and/or enhance the training of a workforce to meet the nation’s biomedical, behavioral and clinical research needs.to accomplish the stated over-arching goal, this foa will support creative educational activities with a primary focus on:to accomplish the stated over-arching goal, this foa will support creative educational activities with a primary focus on:courses for skills development research experiencesthe purpose of this funding opportunity announcement is to encourage applications for the initiation or continuation of nationally available neuroscience research education programs that will significantly advance the mission of ninds. the primary focus of programs submitted under this foa should be on intensive hands-on experience that will provide research experience, an in-depth understanding of techniques, analytic approaches and theory, and expertise that is only possible from a nationally organized program. within the context of gaining expertise primarily through hands-on experience, programs must also include immersive coursework and expert discussion when appropriate. programs appropriate for this foa must include participants from a nationally recruited cohort, selected through an application process overseen by a well-balanced leadership committee.the purpose of this funding opportunity announcement is to encourage applications for the initiation or continuation of nationally available neuroscience research education programs that will significantly advance the mission of ninds. the primary focus of programs submitted under this foa should be on intensive hands-on experience that will provide research experience, an in-depth understanding of techniques, analytic approaches and theory, and expertise that is only possible from a nationally organized program. within the context of gaining expertise primarily through hands-on experience, programs must also include immersive coursework and expert discussion when appropriate. programs appropriate for this foa must include participants from a nationally recruited cohort, selected through an application process overseen by a well-balanced leadership committee.30 days prior to application due dateaugust 30, 2021, july 14, 2022, july 13, 2023all applications are due by 5:00 pm local time of applicant organization. all types of non-aids applications allowed for this funding opportunity announcement are due on the listed date(s). applicants are encouraged to apply early to allow adequate time to make any corrections to errors found in the application during the submission process by the due date.all applications are due by 5:00 pm local time of applicant organization. all types of non-aids applications allowed for this funding opportunity announcement are due on the listed date(s).applicants are encouraged to apply early to allow adequate time to make any corrections to errors found in the application during the submission process by the due date.not applicableoctober/november 2021, october/november 2022, october/november 2023january 2022, january 2023, january 2024april 2022, april 2023, april 2024not applicableit is critical that applicants follow the instructions in the research (r) instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide,except where instructed to do otherwise (in this foa or in a notice from nih guide for grants and contracts ).conformance to all requirements (both in the application guide and the foa) is required and strictly enforced. applicants must read and follow all application instructions in the application guide as well as any program-specific instructions noted in section iv. when the program-specific instructions deviate from those in the application guide, follow the program-specific instructions.applications that do not comply with these instructions may be delayed or not accepted for review.there are several options available to submit your application through grants.gov to nih and department of health and human services partners. you must use one of these submission options to access the application forms for this opportunity.the nih research education program (r25) supports research educational activities that complement other formal training programs in the mission areas of the nih institutes and centers. the overarching goals of the nih r25 program are to: (1) complement and/or enhance the training of a workforce to meet the nation’s biomedical, behavioral and clinical research needs; (2) encourage individuals from diverse backgrounds, including those from groups underrepresented in the biomedical and behavioral sciences, to pursue further studies or careers in research; (3) help recruit individuals with specific specialty or disciplinary backgrounds to research careers in biomedical, behavioral and clinical sciences; and (4) foster a better understanding of biomedical, behavioral and clinical research and its implications.the overarching goal of this r25 program is to support educational activities that complement and/or enhance the training of a workforce to meet the nation’s biomedical, behavioral and clinical research needs.to accomplish the stated over-arching goal, this foa will support creative educational activities with a primary focus on:ninds considers a limited number of targeted, outstanding research education programs to be invaluable to the furtherance of its mission. educational programs in all areas of research (basic, clinical and translational) are eligible. programs must provide a critical educational experience not already available at a local or national level. moreover, programs should provide research education that could not be provided at a local level. these research education programs would be expected to bring together national and international leaders in a field, or multiple fields, to provide intellectual, technical, theoretical and practical knowledge to participants and thus promote the conduct of cutting-edge scientific inquiry. in general, programs should focus on advanced education in a field, which will allow participants to excel in their research endeavors. these research education programs might be narrowly focused on a specific research area, to provide a broad and deep understanding of, and practical experience required for, that specific research area. alternatively, these programs may be applicable to many research areas, but focus on developing expertise in classes of new technologies, experimental and/or analytical approaches.regardless of focus, to be competitive, programs submitted to this foa must comply with the following:program leaders and faculty should be nationally regarded as leaders in the topic they are contributing to, should have a strong reputation as educators in their field, and, where appropriate, should have current, vibrant research activities. the pd/pi should have similar credentials, except in circumstances where he/she is in an administrative position specifically designated for coordination of such programs. proposed programs should have clear practical content, with an expectation that participants will leave the program with a strong, working knowledge of the subject matter. whereas coursework, lectures and/or discussion will likely play critical roles in these programs, programs that focus primarily on coursework, lectures or discussion are not appropriate for this foa. thus, faculty should have strong technical expertise, and be practitioners of cutting-edge research related to the programmatic subject. applicants are strongly encouraged to discuss potential programs with the director, ninds office of training and workforce development, to evaluate the level of ninds programmatic interest.research education grants are intended to be novel, innovative and designed to accomplish a specific goal. consequently, they require a well-conceived evaluation plan in order to determine their effectiveness. each application must include a detailed plan to evaluate the effectiveness of the activities proposed (see section iv, evaluation plan). for some types of projects, a plan for disseminating results may also be required (see section iv, dissemination plan).r25 programs may complement ongoing research training and education occurring in the u.s., but the proposed educational experiences must be distinct from those research training and research education programs currently receiving federal support. the r25 is not a substitute for an institutional research training program (t32, t35 or t90) and cannot be used to circumvent or supplement ruth l. kirschstein national research service award (nrsa) mechanisms. for example, summer research experiences targeted to medical or other students are not appropriate for this foa, as the t35, and other nih research education programs are intended to support those types of activities.this foa is not appropriate for diversity-targeted or mentorship-focused programs, as other r25 foas are available for those purposes (see https://www.ninds.nih.gov/funding/training-career-awards/institutional-awards#r25 for other ninds r25 foas). this foa is also not intended to support training in clinical trial design – ninds supports this through other mechanisms. finally, this foa is not intended to fund conferences or other workshops that were previously funded by, or are appropriate for support by, the r13/u13 mechanism.see section viii. other information for award authorities and regulations.grant: a support mechanism providing money, property, or both to an eligible entity to carry out an approved project or activity.the oer glossary and the sf424 (r&r) application guide provide details on these application types. only those application types listed here are allowed for this foa.not allowed: only accepting applications that do not propose clinical trial(s).need help determining whether you are doing a clinical trial?need help determining whether you are doing a clinical trial?the number of awards is contingent upon nih appropriations and the submission of a sufficient number of meritorious applications.application budgets are are limited to a maximum of $250,000 direct cost per year and need to reflect the actual needs of the proposed project.the maximum project period is 5 years.individuals designing, directing, and implementing the research education program may request salary and fringe benefits appropriate for the person months devoted to the program. salaries requested may not exceed the levels commensurate with the institution's policy for similar positions and may not exceed the congressionally mandated cap. (if mentoring interactions and other activities with participants are considered a regular part of an individual's academic duties, then any costs associated with the mentoring and other interactions with participants are not allowable costs from grant funds).participants may be compensated for participation in activities specifically required by the proposed research education program, if sufficiently justified. participant costs must be itemized in the proposed budget.allowable participant costs depend on the educational level/career status of the individuals to be selected to participate in the program.while generally not an allowable cost, with strong justification, participants in the research education program may receive per diem unless such costs are furnished as part of the registration fee. participants may also receive funds to defray partial tuition and other education-related expenses.expenses for foreign travel must be exceptionally well justified.individuals supported by nih training and career development mechanisms (k, t, or f awards) may receive, and indeed are encouraged to receive, educational experiences supported by an r25 program, as participants, but may not receive salary or stipend supplementation from a research education program.because the r25 program is not intended as a substitute for an nrsa institutional training program (e.g.,t32), costs to support full-time participants (supported for 40 hours/week for a continuous, 12-month period) are not allowable.consultant costs, equipment, supplies, travel for key persons, and other program-related expenses may be included in the proposed budget. these expenses must be justified as specifically required by the proposed program and must not duplicate items generally available at the applicant institution.indirect costs (also known as facilities & administrative [f&a] costs) are reimbursed at 8% of modified total direct costs (exclusive of tuition and fees, expenditures for equipment and consortium costs in excess of $25,000), rather than on the basis of a negotiated rate agreement.nih grants policies as described in the nih grants policy statement will apply to the applications submitted and awards made from this foa.higher education institutionsthe following types of higher education institutions are always encouraged to apply for nih support as public or private institutions of higher education:nonprofits other than institutions of higher educationthe sponsoring institution must assure support for the proposed program. appropriate institutional commitment to the program includes the provision of adequate staff, facilities, and educational resources that can contribute to the planned program.institutions with existing ruth l. kirschstein national research service award (nrsa) institutional training grants (e.g., t32) or other federally funded training programs may apply for a research education grant provided that the proposed educational experiences are distinct from those training programs receiving federal support. in many cases, it is anticipated that the proposed research education program will complement ongoing research training occurring at the applicant institution.non-domestic (non-u.s.) entities (foreign institutions) are not eligible to applynon-domestic (non-u.s.) components of u.s. organizations are not eligible to apply.foreign components, as defined in the nih grants policy statement, are allowed.applicant organizationsapplicant organizations must complete and maintain the following registrations as described in the sf 424 (r&r) application guide to be eligible to apply for or receive an award. all registrations must be completed prior to the application being submitted. registration can take 6 weeks or more, so applicants should begin the registration process as soon as possible. the nih policy on late submission of grant applications states that failure to complete registrations in advance of a due date is not a valid reason for a late submission.program directors/principal investigators (pd(s)/pi(s))all pd(s)/pi(s) must have an era commons account. pd(s)/pi(s) should work with their organizational officials to either create a new account or to affiliate their existing account with the applicant organization in era commons. if the pd/pi is also the organizational signing official, they must have two distinct era commons accounts, one for each role. obtaining an era commons account can take up to 2 weeks.any individual(s) with the skills, knowledge, and resources necessary to carry out the proposed research as the program director(s)/principal investigator(s) (pd(s)/pi(s)) is invited to work with his/her organization to develop an application for support. individuals from diverse backgrounds, including underrepresented racial and ethnic groups, individuals with disabilities, and women are always encouraged to apply for nih support.for institutions/organizations proposing multiple pds/pis, visit the multiple program director/principal investigator policy and submission details in the senior/key person profile (expanded) component of the sf424 (r&r) application guide.the pd/pi should be an established investigator in the scientific area in which the application is targeted and capable of providing both administrative and scientific leadership to the development and implementation of the proposed program. the pd/pi will be expected to monitor and assess the program and submit all documents and reports as required.this foa does not require cost sharing as defined in the nih grants policy statement.number of applicationsapplicant organizations may submit more than one application, provided that each application is scientifically distinct.the nih will not accept duplicate or highly overlapping applications under review at the same time. this means that the nih will not accept:program facultyit is essential that trainees have exposure and access to faculty with a broad range of expertise and perspectives. consequently, programs are expected to include researchers from diverse backgrounds, including women, racial and ethnic minorities and persons with disabilities.participantsunless strongly justified on the basis of exceptional relevance to nih, research education programs should be used primarily for the education of u.s. citizens and permanent residents. programs are expected to select a diverse cohort of participants, which would include women, racial and ethnic minorities, persons with disabilities and persons from disadvantaged backgrounds. participants may include students, postdoctoral fellows, and junior faculty still in research training (such as k-level clinician-scientists).the application forms package specific to this opportunity must be accessed through assist, grants.gov workspace or an institutional system-to-system solution. links to apply using assist or grants.gov workspace are available in part 1 of this foa. see your administrative office for instructions if you plan to use an institutional system-to-system solution.it is critical that applicants follow the instructions in the research (r) instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide except where instructed in this funding opportunity announcement to do otherwise. conformance to the requirements in the application guide is required and strictly enforced. applications that are out of compliance with these instructions will not be reviewed.letter of intentalthough a letter of intent is not required, is not binding, and does not enter into the review of a subsequent application, the information that it contains allows ic staff to estimate the potential review workload and plan the review.by the date listed in part 1. overview information, prospective applicants are asked to submit a letter of intent that includes the following information:the letter of intent should be sent to:stephen korn, ph.d. director, ninds office of training and worforce development email: korns@ninds.nih.govnote: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023 a data management and sharing plan is not applicable for this foa.the following section supplements the instructions found in the sf424 (r&r) application guide and should be used for preparing an application to this foa.follow all instructions provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.follow all instructions provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.follow all instructions provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide with the following additional modifications:facilities & other resources. describe the educational environment, including the facilities, laboratories, participating departments, computer services, and any other resources to be used in the development and implementation of the proposed program. list all thematically related sources of support for research training and education following the format for current and pending support.other attachments.an advisory committee is not a required component of a research education program. however, if an advisory committee is intended, provide a plan for the appointment of an advisory committee to monitor progress of the research education program. the composition, roles, responsibilities, and desired expertise of committee members, frequency of committee meetings, and other relevant information should be included. describe how the advisory committee will evaluate the overall effectiveness of the program. proposed advisory committee members should be named in the application if they have been invited to participate at the time the application is submitted. renewal applications with advisory committees should include the names of all committee members during the past project period. please name your file “advisory_committee.pdf”.the filename provided for each “other attachment” will be the name used for the bookmark in the electronic application in era commons.follow all instructions provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.follow all instructions provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide with the following additional modifications:follow all instructions provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed, with the following additional instructions:research strategyresearch strategy section must be used to upload the research education program plan, which must include the following components described below:research education program planproposed research education program. while the proposed research education program may complement ongoing research training and education occurring at the applicant institution, the proposed educational experiences must be distinct from those research training and research education programs currently receiving federal support. when research training programs are on-going in the same department, the applicant organization should clearly distinguish between the activities in the proposed research education program and the research training supported by the training program.the research education program should be described in detail. the proposed plan should include a clearly stated goal of the program, a detailed agenda, and describe how completion of the agenda will achieve the goal(s) of the program. the application should describe how the proposed program will significantly enhance the mission of ninds; what is the critical need that is not being met from other local, regional and national efforts, that will be met by this program? the application should justify the frequency of program offering and size of participant pool that would be expected to benefit from the program. the application should describe the need for creating a single, national program for the proposed goals, and how the program, as proposed, will meet the described goals. participants in the program must be able to return to their home institution and make use of the research education they receive, yet the research education they receive must not be available at their home institution. consequently, as part of this description, the application should describe how the goals of this program cannot be accomplished on a local, institutional level yet the participants can make use of the research education they receive at their home institution. applications should also include a detailed statement of the expected outcome of the program. this outcome should clearly describe what the projected benefit is expected to be to the participants’ research that would be missing without this research education program.the application should describe in detail the hands-on activities that form the fundamental approach by which the program will provide research experience, an in-depth and practical understanding of techniques and analytic approaches. in addition, the application should describe immersive coursework and any other activities that will be integrated into the research education program in order to provide deep and broad expertise in the subject material. this description should include timelines and durations of activities.scientific rigor and transparency. the program should address issues of rigor and transparency, as described in the nih guidance on rigor and reproducibility in grant applications: https://grants.nih.gov/reproducibility/index.htm and in related materials:https://www.ninds.nih.gov/current-research/trans-agency-activities/rigorandreproducibility).the application should describe how it will instill in participants an understanding of the relevant principles of rigorous study design and transparent reporting, including detailed attention to the sources of, and measures that can reduce, unconscious bias in experimentation, data analysis and scientific processes (e.g. publication bias, etc.). this description should include details of course content and instructional approach related to this issue.ethical issues. the program should describe plans to discuss ethical issues and questions associated with the programmatic subject matter and/or goals.foreign components. if foreign components are involved, the application should describe this involvement and why foreign components are necessary.program director/principal investigator. provide evidence that the pd/pi is well suited to organize, administer, monitor and evaluate the research education program. typically, the pd/pi will be actively engaged in research and/or teaching in an area related to the proposed program. the proposal should describe the research and/or teaching activities of the pd/pi in relationship to the proposed program and the evidence that supports the pd/pi’s ability to lead the program.if the pd/pi is not actively engaged in research and/or teaching, describe the qualifications of the pd/pi that make them an appropriate individual to provide leadership to this program. in addition, if the pd/pi is not an active researcher in the scientific area of the program, describe who will provide scientific leadership and how the scientific and administrative leadership will collaborate to create a successful program. for programs proposing multiple pds/pis, describe the complementary and integrated expertise of the pds/pis,their leadership approach, and governance appropriate for the planned project.program faculty. it is expected that women, and researchers from nationally underrepresented backgrounds, including racial and ethnic groups and persons with disabilities, will be represented on the faculty and when appropriate, in programmatic leadership positions. the application should describe the demographic composition of the faculty and programmatic leadership in the aggregate, and the the approach taken to achieve diverse representation in program leadership, participating faculty, mentors, and invited speakers. applications should describe the research expertise and experience of the faculty that is relevant to their intended roles in the proposed program.note that, although inclusion of a geographically broad range of faculty would typically add an additional layer of diversity of perspectives to the program, some programs might be better suited to a faculty from a narrow range of institutions. programs should clearly describe the basis for choosing the participating faculty.program participants. applications must describe the intended participants, and the eligibility criteria and/or specific educational background characteristics that are essential for participation in the proposed research education program. identify the career levels for which the proposed program is planned. if participants will include scientists at different career levels, the intended distribution should be described. moreover, if participants will be at different career levels, the application should describe how the content is appropriate for participants with different levels of experience and expertise. applications should describe the specific needs and prior expertise participants are expected to have that will make them good candidates for this program and should also provide a clear description of the selection process for accepting participants into the program. the application should describe the recruitment and selection process by which a national cohort of participants will be chosen.institutional environment and commitment. describe any additional aspects of the institutional environment and commitment not addressed under “facilities & other resources” or the required “institutional commitment letter of support,” described below. appropriate institutional commitment should include the provision of adequate staff, facilities, and educational resources that can contribute to the planned research education program. this section should not duplicate information provided elsewhere.recruitment plan to enhance diversity (not-od-20-031):the applicant must provide a recruitment plan to enhance diversity. include outreach strategies and activities designed to recruit prospective participants from diverse backgrounds, e.g., those from groups described in the notice of nih's interest in diversity. describe the specific efforts to be undertaken by the program and how the proposed plan reflects past experiences in recruiting individuals from underrepresented groups.renewal applications must include a detailed account of experiences in recruiting individuals from underrepresented groups during the previous funding period, including successful and unsuccessful recruitment strategies.applications lacking a diversity recruitment plan will not be reviewed.backgroundfostering diversity in the scientific research workforce is a key component of the nih strategy to identify, develop, support and maintain the quality of our scientific human capital. every facet of the united states scientific research enterprise—from basic laboratory research to clinical and translational research to policy formation–requires superior intellect, creativity and a wide range of skill sets and viewpoints. nih's ability to help ensure that the nation remains a global leader in scientific discovery and innovation is dependent upon a pool of highly talented scientists from diverse backgrounds who will help to further nih's mission.research shows that diverse teams working together and capitalizing on innovative ideas and distinct perspectives outperform homogenous teams. scientists and trainees from diverse backgrounds and life experiences bring different perspectives, creativity, and individual enterprise to address complex scientific problems. there are many benefits that flow from a diverse nih-supported scientific workforce, including: fostering scientific innovation, enhancing global competitiveness, contributing to robust learning environments, improving the quality of the researchers, advancing the likelihood that underserved or health disparity populations participate in, and benefit from health research, and enhancing public trust.in spite of tremendous advancements in scientific research, information, educational and research opportunities are not equally available to all. nih encourages institutions to diversify their student and faculty populations to enhance the participation of individuals from groups identified as nationally underrepresented in the biomedical, clinical, behavioral and social sciences, such as:a. individuals from racial and ethnic groups that have been shown by the national science foundation to be underrepresented in health-related sciences on a national basis (see data at http://www.nsf.gov/statistics/showpub.cfm?topid=2&subid=27) and the report women, minorities, and persons with disabilities in science and engineering). the following racial and ethnic groups have been shown to be underrepresented in biomedical research: blacks or african americans, hispanics or latinos, american indians or alaska natives, and native hawaiians and other pacific islanders. in addition, it is recognized that underrepresentation can vary from setting to setting; individuals from racial or ethnic groups that can be demonstrated convincingly to be underrepresented by the grantee institution should be encouraged to participate in this program. for more information on racial and ethnic categories and definitions, see not-od-15-089.b. individuals with disabilities, who are defined as those with a physical or mental impairment that substantially limits one or more major life activities, as described in the americans with disabilities act of 1990, as amended. see nsf data at http://www.nsf.gov/statistics/wmpd/2013/pdf/tab7-5_updated_2014_10.pdf.c. individuals from disadvantaged backgrounds, defined as:1. individuals who come from a family with an annual income below established low-income thresholds. these thresholds are based on family size, published by the u.s. bureau of the census; adjusted annually for changes in the consumer price index; and adjusted by the secretary for use in all health professions programs. the secretary periodically publishes these income levels at http://aspe.hhs.gov/poverty/index.shtml.2. individuals who come from an educational environment such as that found in certain rural or inner-city environments that has demonstrably and directly inhibited the individual from obtaining the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to develop and participate in a research career.the disadvantaged background category (c1 and c2) is applicable to programs focused on high school and undergraduate candidates.literature shows that women from the above backgrounds (categories a, b, and c) face particular challenges at the graduate level and beyond in scientific fields. (see, e.g., inside the doublebind, a synthesis of empirical research on undergraduate and graduate women of color in science, technology, engineering, and mathematics: http://her.hepg.org/content/t022245n7x4752v2/fulltext.pdf).instructionsnew applications must include a description of plans to enhance recruitment, including the strategies that will be used to enhance the recruitment of trainees from nationally underrepresented groups as reflected above, and may wish to include data in support of past accomplishments.renewal applications must include a detailed account of experiences in recruiting individuals from nationally underrepresented groups during the previous funding period, including successful and unsuccessful recruitment strategies. information should be included on how the proposed plan reflects the program's past experiences in recruiting individuals from underrepresented groups.all applications (new and renewal) must confirm that, in advertising the program, it will be clear to individuals with disabilities that necessary accommodations will be made to ensure their ability to fully participate in the program, both with regard to accommodations at the program venue and at any needs associated with lodging. registration websites and registration materials should provide a questionnaire that will allow participants with disabilities to voluntarily identify any special needs, so that conference organizers can make plans to accommodate these needs.for those individuals who participated in the research education program, the report should include information about the duration of education and aggregate information on the number of individuals who finished the program in good standing. additional information on the required recruitment plan to enhance diversity is available at frequently asked questions: recruitment plan to enhance diversity (diversity faqs). applications lacking a diversity recruitment plan will not be reviewed.plan for instruction in the responsible conduct of research. all applications must include a plan to fulfill nih requirements for instruction in the responsible conduct of research (rcr). the plan must address the five, required instructional components outlined in the nih policy: 1) format - the required format of instruction, i.e., face-to-face lectures, coursework, and/or real-time discussion groups (a plan with only on-line instruction is not acceptable); 2) subject matter - the breadth of subject matter, e.g., conflict of interest, authorship, data management, human subjects and animal use, laboratory safety, research misconduct, research ethics; 3) faculty participation - the role of the program faculty in the instruction; 4) duration of instruction - the number of contact hours of instruction, taking into consideration the duration of the program; and 5) frequency of instruction – instruction must occur during each career stage and at least once every four years. see also not-od-10-019. the plan should be appropriate and reasonable for the nature and duration of the proposed program. renewal (type 2) applications must, in addition, describe any changes in formal instruction over the past project period and plans to address any weaknesses in the current instruction plan. all participating faculty who served as course directors, speakers, lecturers, and/or discussion leaders during the past project period must be named in the application.applications lacking a plan for instruction in responsible conduct of research will not be reviewed.evaluation plan. applications must include a plan for evaluating the activities supported by the award. the application must specify baseline metrics (e.g., numbers, educational levels, and demographic characteristics of participants), as well as measures to gauge the short or long-term success of the research education award in achieving its objectives. wherever appropriate, applicants are encouraged to obtain feedback from participants to help identify weaknesses and to provide suggestions for improvements. however, such feedback does not constitute a sufficient evaluation plan.for renewal applications, the application should describe the evaluations conducted, the results of the evaluations, and programmatic changes proposed as a result of the evaluations.dissemination plan. if any written materials will be developed under the auspices of the research education program, e.g. course curricula, information provided via web postings, presentations at scientific meetings, workshops, instruction manuals, etc., then a dissemination plan must be included.letters of supporta letter of institutional commitment must be attached as part of letters of support (see section above:”institutional environment and commitment."resource sharing planswhen relevant, applications are expected to include a software dissemination plan if support for development, maintenance, or enhancement of software is requested in the application.there is no prescribed single license for software produced. however, the software dissemination plan should address, as appropriate, the following goals:appendixonly limited appendix materials are allowed. follow the instructions for the appendix as described in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.phs human subjects and clinical trials informationwhen involving human subjects research, clinical research, and/or nih-defined clinical trials (and when applicable, clinical trials research experience) follow all instructions for the phs human subjects and clinical trials information form in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, with the following additional instructions:if you answered “yes” to the question “are human subjects involved?” on the r&r other project information form, you must include at least one human subjects study record using the study record: phs human subjects and clinical trials information form or delayed onset study record.study record: phs human subjects and clinical trials informationall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.note: delayed onset does not apply to a study that can be described but will not start immediately (i.e., delayed start). all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.foreign institutionsforeign (non-u.s.) institutions must follow policies described in the nih grants policy statement, and procedures for foreign institutions described throughout the sf424 (r&r) application guide.see part 1. section iii.1 for information regarding the requirement for obtaining a unique entity identifier and for completing and maintaining active registrations in system for award management (sam), nato commercial and government entity (ncage) code (if applicable), era commons, and grants.govpart i. overview information contains information about key dates and times. applicants are encouraged to submit applications before the due date to ensure they have time to make any application corrections that might be necessary for successful submission. when a submission date falls on a weekend or federal holiday, the application deadline is automatically extended to the next business day.organizations must submit applications to grants.gov (the online portal to find and apply for grants across all federal agencies). applicants must then complete the submission process by tracking the status of the application in the era commons, nih’s electronic system for grants administration. nih and grants.gov systems check the application against many of the application instructions upon submission. errors must be corrected and a changed/corrected application must be submitted to grants.gov on or before the application due date and time. if a changed/corrected application is submitted after the deadline, the application will be considered late. applications that miss the due date and time are subjected to the nih policy on late application submission.applicants are responsible for viewing their application before the due date in the era commons to ensure accurate and successful submission.information on the submission process and a definition of on-time submission are provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.this initiative is not subject to intergovernmental review.all nih awards are subject to the terms and conditions, cost principles, and other considerations described in the nih grants policy statement .pre-award costs are allowable only as described in the nih grants policy statement.applications must be submitted electronically following the instructions described in the sf424 (r&r) application guide. paper applications will not be accepted.applicants must complete all required registrations before the application due date. section iii. eligibility information contains information about registration.for assistance with your electronic application or for more information on the electronic submission process, visit how to apply – application guide. if you encounter a system issue beyond your control that threatens your ability to complete the submission process on-time, you must follow the dealing with system issues guidance. for assistance with application submission, contact the application submission contacts in section vii.important reminders:all pd(s)/pi(s) must include their era commons id in the credential field of the senior/key person profile component of the sf424(r&r) application package. failure to register in the commons and to include a valid pd/pi commons id in the credential field will prevent the successful submission of an electronic application to nih.the applicant organization must ensure that the duns number it provides on the application is the same number used in the organization’s profile in the era commons and for the system for award management (sam). additional information may be found in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.see more tips for avoiding common errors.upon receipt, applications will be evaluated for completeness and compliance with application instructions by the center for scientific review, nih. applications that are incomplete or non-compliant will not be reviewed.only the review criteria described below will be considered in the review process. applications submitted to the nih in support of the nih mission are evaluated for scientific and technical merit through the nih peer review system.for this particular announcement, note the following: the goal of this r25 program is to support educational activities that center around intensive, hands-on research experiences that will provide participants with a mastery of advanced skills within a research area, together with expert knowledge associated with those skills. reviewers will emphasize the importance of the skills and knowledge to be attained, the hands-on approach to obtaining the skills and knowledge, the programmatic plan to provide participants with strong expertise in the proposed subject (in all respects, including ethical considerations), the potential impact of the program on furthering the ninds mission, and the expertise of the pd/pi and proposed faculty needed to fulfill the goals of the program.reviewers will provide an overall impact score to reflect their assessment of the likelihood for the project to strongly advance research education by fulfilling the goal of this r25 education program, in consideration of the following review criteria and additional review criteria, as applicable for the project proposed.reviewers will consider each of the review criteria below in the determination of scientific merit, and give a separate score for each. an application does not need to be strong in all categories to be judged likely to have major scientific impact.significancedoes the proposed program address a key audience and an important aspect or important need in research education? is there convincing evidence in the application that the proposed program will significantly advance the stated goal of the program?does the proposed program fulfill a critical need for the neuroscience community, which requires a national approach to accomplishing the goals and which is not available in other venues or programs? will the proposed program create an exceptional opportunity to provide participants with a mastery of advanced skills within a research area and expert knowledge associated with those skills?investigator(s)is the pd/pi capable of providing both administrative and scientific leadership to the development and implementation of the proposed program? is there evidence that an appropriate level of effort will be devoted by the program leadership to ensure the program's intended goal is accomplished? if applicable, is there evidence that the participating faculty have experience in mentoring students and teaching science? if applicable, are the faculty good role models for the participants by nature of their scientific accomplishments? if the project is collaborative or multi-pd/pi, do the investigators have complementary and integrated expertise; are their leadership approach, governance and organizational structure appropriate for the project?if the pd/pi is not an established investigator in the scientific area proposed, are there program directors who will provide outstanding scientific leadership and a plan for how the scientific and administrative leadership will collaborate for a successful program?innovationtaking into consideration the nature of the proposed research education program, does the applicant make a strong case for this program effectively reaching an audience in need of the program’s offerings? where appropriate, is the proposed program developing or utilizing innovative approaches and latest best practices to improve the knowledge and/or skills of the intended audience?does the organization of the program, taking account of the agenda, skills and knowledge provided and proposed faculty, create an innovative approach and/or unique opportunity to gain mastery of a research area or set of skills?approachdoes the proposed program clearly state its goals and objectives, including the educational level of the audience to be reached, the content to be conveyed, and the intended outcome? is there evidence that the program is based on a sound rationale, as well as sound educational concepts and principles? is the plan for evaluation sound and likely to provide information on the effectiveness of the program? if the proposed program will recruit participants, are the planned recruitment, retention, and follow-up (if applicable) activities adequate to ensure a highly qualified participant pool?environmentwill the scientific and educational environment of the proposed program contribute to its intended goals? is there a plan to take advantage of this environment to enhance the educational value of the program? is there tangible evidence of institutional commitment? is there evidence that the faculty have sufficient institutional support to create a sound educational environment for the participants? where appropriate, is there evidence of collaboration and buy-in among participating programs, departments, and institutions?as applicable for the project proposed, reviewers will evaluate the following additional items while determining scientific and technical merit, and in providing an overall impact score, but will not give separate scores for these items.protections for human subjectsfor research that involves human subjects but does not involve one of the categories of research that are exempt under 45 cfr part 46, the committee will evaluate the justification for involvement of human subjects and the proposed protections from research risk relating to their participation according to the following five review criteria: 1) risk to subjects, 2) adequacy of protection against risks, 3) potential benefits to the subjects and others, 4) importance of the knowledge to be gained, and 5) data and safety monitoring for clinical trials.for research that involves human subjects and meets the criteria for one or more of the categories of research that are exempt under 45 cfr part 46, the committee will evaluate: 1) the justification for the exemption, 2) human subjects involvement and characteristics, and 3) sources of materials. for additional information on review of the human subjects section, please refer to the guidelines for the review of human subjects.inclusion of women, minorities, and individuals across the lifespanwhen the proposed project involves human subjects and/or nih-defined clinical research, the committee will evaluate the proposed plans for the inclusion (or exclusion) of individuals on the basis of sex/gender, race, and ethnicity, as well as the inclusion (or exclusion) of individuals of all ages (including children and older adults) to determine if it is justified in terms of the scientific goals and research strategy proposed. for additional information on review of the inclusion section, please refer to the guidelines for the review of inclusion in clinical research.vertebrate animalsthe committee will evaluate the involvement of live vertebrate animals as part of the scientific assessment according to the following criteria: (1) description of proposed procedures involving animals, including species, strains, ages, sex, and total number to be used; (2) justifications for the use of animals versus alternative models and for the appropriateness of the species proposed; (3) interventions to minimize discomfort, distress, pain and injury; and (4) justification for euthanasia method if not consistent with the avma guidelines for the euthanasia of animals. reviewers will assess the use of chimpanzees as they would any other application proposing the use of vertebrate animals. for additional information on review of the vertebrate animals section, please refer to the worksheet for review of the vertebrate animal section.biohazardsreviewers will assess whether materials or procedures proposed are potentially hazardous to research personnel and/or the environment, and if needed, determine whether adequate protection is proposed.resubmissionsfor resubmissions, the committee will evaluate the application as now presented, taking into consideration the responses to comments from the previous scientific review group and changes made to the project.revisionsnot applicablerenewalsfor renewals, the committee will consider the progress made in the last funding period, and the success of the program in attracting individuals from groups that are nationally underrepresented in biomedical, behavioral and clinical research, consistent with not-od-20-031. it will also consider the evaluation activities conducted by the program in the last funding period and the evolution and improvement of the program already made and/or proposed in response to these evaluations.note: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023, the data sharing plan and genomic data sharing plan (gds) as part of the resource sharing plan will not be evaluated at time of review, and a data management and sharing plan is not applicable for this foa.as applicable for the project proposed, reviewers will consider each of the following items, but will not give scores for these items, and should not consider them in providing an overall impact score.peer reviewers will separately evaluate the recruitment plan to enhance diversity after the overall score has been determined. reviewers will examine the strategies to be used in the recruitment of individuals from nationally underrepresented groups,consistent with not-od-20-031. the review panel's evaluation will be included in the summary statement. plans will be rated as acceptable or unacceptable, and the summary statement will provide the consensus of the review committee.training in the responsible conduct of researchtaking into account the specific characteristics of the proposed research education program, the level of participant experience, the reviewers will evaluate the adequacy of the proposed rcr training in relation to the following five required components: 1) format - the required format of instruction, i.e., face-to-face lectures, coursework, and/or real-time discussion groups (a plan with only on-line instruction is not acceptable); 2) subject matter - the breadth of subject matter, e.g., conflict of interest, authorship, data management, human subjects and animal use, laboratory safety, research misconduct, research ethics; 3) faculty participation - the role of the program faculty in the instruction; 4) duration of instruction - the number of contact hours of instruction, taking into consideration the duration of the program; and 5) frequency of instruction –instruction must occur during each career stage and at least once every four years. see also: not-od-10-019. the review panel’s evaluation will be included in the summary statement. plans will be rated as acceptable or unacceptable, and the summary statement will provide the consensus of the review committee.applications from foreign organizationsnot applicableselect agent researchgenerally not applicable. reviewers should bring any concerns to the attention of the scientific review officer.resource sharing plansreviewers will comment on whether the following resource sharing plans, or the rationale for not sharing the following types of resources, are reasonable: 1) data sharing plan; 2) sharing model organisms; and 3) genomic data sharing plan.if support for development, maintenance, or enhancement of software is requested in the application, the reviewers will comment on the proposed software dissemination plan.budget and period of supportreviewers will consider whether the budget and the requested period of support are fully justified and reasonable in relation to the proposed research.applications will be evaluated for scientific and technical merit by (an) appropriate scientific review group(s), in accordance with nih peer review policy and procedures, using the stated review criteria. assignment to a scientific review group will be shown in the era commons.as part of the scientific peer review, all applications will receive a written critique.applications may undergo a selection process in which only those applications deemed to have the highest scientific and technical merit (generally the top half of applications under review) will be discussed and assigned an overall impact score.information regarding the disposition of applications is available in the nih grants policy statement.if the application is under consideration for funding, nih will request "just-in-time" information from the applicant as described in the nih grants policy statement.a formal notification in the form of a notice of award (noa) will be provided to the applicant organization for successful applications. the noa signed by the grants management officer is the authorizing document and will be sent via email to the recipient’s business official.awardees must comply with any funding restrictions described in section iv.6. funding restrictions. selection of an application for award is not an authorization to begin performance. any costs incurred before receipt of the noa are at the recipient's risk. these costs may be reimbursed only to the extent considered allowable pre-award costs.any application awarded in response to this foa will be subject to terms and conditions found on the award conditions and information for nih grants website. this includes any recent legislation and policy applicable to awards that is highlighted on this website.all nih grant and cooperative agreement awards include the nih grants policy statement as part of the noa. for these terms of award, see the nih grants policy statement part ii: terms and conditions of nih grant awards, subpart a: general and part ii: terms and conditions of nih grant awards, subpart b: terms and conditions for specific types of grants, recipients, and activities. more information is provided at award conditions and information for nih grants.recipients of federal financial assistance (ffa) from hhs must administer their programs in compliance with federal civil rights laws that prohibit discrimination on the basis of race, color, national origin, disability, age and, in some circumstances, religion, conscience, and sex. this includes ensuring programs are accessible to persons with limited english proficiency. the hhs office for civil rights provides guidance on complying with civil rights laws enforced by hhs. please see https://www.hhs.gov/civil-rights/for-providers/provider-obligations/index.html and http://www.hhs.gov/ocr/civilrights/understanding/section1557/index.html.hhs recognizes that research projects are often limited in scope for many reasons that are nondiscriminatory, such as the principal investigator’s scientific interest, funding limitations, recruitment requirements, and other considerations. thus, criteria in research protocols that target or exclude certain populations are warranted where nondiscriminatory justifications establish that such criteria are appropriate with respect to the health or safety of the subjects, the scientific study design, or the purpose of the research. for additional guidance regarding how the provisions apply to nih grant programs, please contact the scientific/research contact that is identified in section vii under agency contacts of this foa.please contact the hhs office for civil rights for more information about obligations and prohibitions under federal civil rights laws at https://www.hhs.gov/ocr/about-us/contact-us/index.html or call 1-800-368-1019 or tdd 1-800-537-7697.in accordance with the statutory provisions contained in section 872 of the duncan hunter national defense authorization act of fiscal year 2009 (public law 110-417), nih awards will be subject to the federal awardee performance and integrity information system (fapiis) requirements. fapiis requires federal award making officials to review and consider information about an applicant in the designated integrity and performance system (currently fapiis) prior to making an award. an applicant, at its option, may review information in the designated integrity and performance systems accessible through fapiis and comment on any information about itself that a federal agency previously entered and is currently in fapiis. the federal awarding agency will consider any comments by the applicant, in addition to other information in fapiis, in making a judgement about the applicant’s integrity, business ethics, and record of performance under federal awards when completing the review of risk posed by applicants as described in 45 cfr part 75.205 “federal awarding agency review of risk posed by applicants.” this provision will apply to all nih grants and cooperative agreements except fellowships.when multiple years are involved, awardees will be required to submit the research performance progress report (rppr) annually. continuation support will not be provided until the required forms are submitted and accepted.programs that involve participants should report on education in the responsible conduct of research and complete a trainee diversity report, in accordance with the rppr instruction guide.the federal funding accountability and transparency act of 2006 (transparency act), includes a requirement for awardees of federal grants to report information about first-tier subawards and executive compensation under federal assistance awards issued in fy2011 or later. all awardees of applicable nih grants and cooperative agreements are required to report to the federal subaward reporting system (fsrs) available at www.fsrs.gov on all subawards over $25,000. see the nih grants policy statement for additional information on this reporting requirement.failure by the recipient institution to submit required forms in a timely, complete, and accurate manner may result in an expenditure disallowance or a delay in any continuation funding for the award.in accordance with the regulatory requirements provided at 45 cfr 75.113 and appendix xii to 45 cfr part 75, recipients that have currently active federal grants, cooperative agreements, and procurement contracts from all federal awarding agencies with a cumulative total value greater than $10,000,000 for any period of time during the period of performance of a federal award, must report and maintain the currency of information reported in the system for award management (sam) about civil, criminal, and administrative proceedings in connection with the award or performance of a federal award that reached final disposition within the most recent five-year period. the recipient must also make semiannual disclosures regarding such proceedings. proceedings information will be made publicly available in the designated integrity and performance system (currently fapiis). this is a statutory requirement under section 872 of public law 110-417, as amended (41 u.s.c. 2313). as required by section 3010 of public law 111-212, all information posted in the designated integrity and performance system on or after april 15, 2011, except past performance reviews required for federal procurement contracts, will be publicly available. full reporting requirements and procedures are found in appendix xii to 45 cfr part 75 – award term and conditions for recipient integrity and performance matters.a final rppr and the expenditure data portion of the federal financial report are required for closeout of an award as described in the nih grants policy statement.in carrying out its stewardship of human resource-related programs, the nih or its institutes and centers will periodically evaluate their r25 research education programs, employing the measures identified below. in assessing the effectiveness of its research education investments, nih may request information from databases, pd/pis, and from participants themselves. where necessary, pd/pis and participants may be contacted after the completion of a research education experience for periodic updates on participants’ subsequent educational or employment history and professional activities.upon the completion of a program evaluation, nih and its ics will determine whether to (a) continue a program as currently configured, (b) continue a program with modifications, or (c) discontinue a program.in evaluating this research education program ninds expects to use the following evaluation measures:for courses for skills development:we encourage inquiries concerning this funding opportunity and welcome the opportunity to answer questions from potential applicants.era service desk (questions regarding assist, era commons, application errors and warnings, documenting system problems that threaten submission by the due date, and post-submission issues)finding help online: http://grants.nih.gov/support/ (preferred method of contact) telephone: 301-402-7469 or 866-504-9552 (toll free)general grants information (questions regarding application instructions, application processes, and nih grant resources) email: grantsinfo@nih.gov (preferred method of contact) telephone: 301-637-3015grants.gov customer support (questions regarding grants.gov registration and workspace) contact center telephone: 800-518-4726 email: support@grants.govsba company registry (questions regarding required registration at the sba company registry and for technical questions or issues) website to email: http://sbir.gov/feedback?type=regstephen korn, ph.d. national institutes of neurological disorders and stroke (ninds) telephone: 301-496-4188 email:korns@ninds.nih.govchief, scientific review branch national institute of neurological disorders and stroke (ninds) telephone: 301-496-9223 email:nindsreview.nih.gov@mail.nih.govchief grants management officer national institute of neurological disorders and stroke (ninds) email:chiefgrantsmanagementofficer@ninds.nih.govrecently issued trans-nih policy notices may affect your application submission. a full list of policy notices published by nih is provided in the nih guide for grants and contracts. all awards are subject to the terms and conditions, cost principles, and other considerations described in the nih grants policy statement.awards are made under the authorization of sections 301 and 405 of the public health service act as amended (42 usc 241 and 284) and under federal regulations 42 cfr part 52 and 45 cfr part 75.weekly toc for this announcement nih funding opportunities and noticesnote: for help accessing pdf, rtf, ms word, excel, powerpoint, audio or video files, see help downloading files.