Paul Calabresi Career Development Award for Clinical Oncology (K12 Clinical Trial Optional)
https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/pa-files/PAR-22-136.html
national institutes of health (nih)national cancer institute (nci)paul calabresi career development award for clinical oncology (k12 clinical trial optional)k12 physician scientist award program (psa)reissue of par-19-242not-od-23-012 reminder: forms-h grant application forms and instructions must be used for due dates on or after january 25, 2023 - new grant application instructions now availablenot-od-22-190 - adjustments to nih and ahrq grant application due dates between september 22 and september 30, 2022par-22-136nonesee section iii. 3. additional information on eligibility.93.398the purpose of the paul calabresi career development award for clinical oncology (pcaco) is to increase the number of clinician-scientists trained in clinical and translational cancer research, and to promote their career development as cancer researchers.this funding opportunity announcement (foa) allows appointment of scholars proposing to serve as the lead investigator of an independent clinical trial; or proposing a separate ancillary study to an existing trial; or proposing to gain research experience in a clinical trial led by another investigator, as part of their research and career development.april 11, 2022may 15, 2022not applicablenew: june 15, 2022; june 15, 2023, june 17, 2024resubmission/renewal: june 15, 2022; june 15, 2023, june 17, 2024all applications are due by 5:00 pm local time of applicant organization. all types of non-aids applications allowed for this funding opportunity announcement are due on the listed date(s).applicants are encouraged to apply early to allow adequate time to make any corrections to errors found in the application during the submission process by the due date.not applicableoctober/november 2022; october/november 2023; october/november 2024january 2023; january 2024; january 2025april 2023june 18, 2024not applicableit is critical that applicants follow the training (t) instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, except where instructed to do otherwise (in this foa or in a notice from the nih guide for grants and contracts). conformance to all requirements (both in the application guide and the foa) is required and strictly enforced. applicants must read and follow all application instructions in the application guide as well as any program-specific instructions noted in section iv. when the program-specific instructions deviate from those in the application guide, follow the program-specific instructions. applications that do not comply with these instructions may be delayed or not accepted for review.there are several options available to submit your application through grants.gov to nih and department of health and human services partners. you must use one of these submission options to access the application forms for this opportunity.part 1. overview information part 2. full text of the announcement section i. funding opportunity description section ii. award information section iii. eligibility information section iv. application and submission information section v. application review information section vi. award administration information section vii. agency contacts section viii. other informationthe overall goal of the nih research training and career development programs is to help ensure that a diverse pool of highly trained scientists is available in appropriate scientific disciplines to address the nation’s biomedical, behavioral, and clinical research needs. more information about career programs may be found at the nih extramural research training and career development website.the purpose of the paul calabresi career development award for clinical oncology (pcaco) is to increase the number of clinician-scientists trained in clinical and translational cancer research, and to promote their career development as cancer researchers.nci initiated its k12 program in 1991 to prepare clinical oncologists to be effective scientific partners with basic research scientists. in 1994, the program was renamed the paul calabresi award in clinical oncology in honor of the late dr. paul calabresi, a pioneer in the pharmacological treatment of cancer and early translational research. this foa encourages applications from applicant organizations that propose creative trans-disciplinary and innovative institutional research career development programs in the mission area(s) of the nci.nci k12 programs are required to have at least two oncology specialties represented among the included faculty and the pool of k12 appointees (scholars). nci k12 programs are expected to leverage the institution’s unique strengths in these oncology specialties and to incorporate the latest research and technology advancements in designing cutting-edge career development curricula. nci k12 programs must establish individualized career development plans to accommodate scholars with different levels of prior research training/experience and assign two mentors, a clinician conducting patient-oriented research and a basic science cancer researcher, to each scholar.for the purposes of this announcement, institutions are encouraged to recruit prospective pis/pds, mentors, and scholars from underrepresented racial and ethnic groups as well as individuals with disabilities as described in the not-od-20-031 in all of its programs.note: this funding opportunity announcement (foa) allows appointment of scholars proposing to serve as the lead investigator of an independent clinical trial; or proposing a separate ancillary study; or proposing to gain research experience in a clinical trial led by another investigator, as part of their research and career development.see section viii. other information for award authorities and regulations.grant: a support mechanism providing money, property, or both to an eligible entity to carry out an approved project or activity.new renewal resubmissionthe oer glossary and the sf424 (r&r) application guide provide details on these application types. only those application types listed here are allowed for this foa.optional: accepting applications that either propose or do not propose clinical trial(s)need help determining whether you are doing a clinical trial?the number of awards is contingent upon nih appropriations and the submission of a sufficient number of meritorious applications.direct costs are limited to $50,000 in the initial year of new (type 1) programs and may be used for curriculum planning and development, advertising, and recruiting of the first class of scholars. k12 scholars will begin work in the second year of the grant, where costs are limited to $750,000 direct costs annually. for renewal (type 2) applications, the program may request up to $750,000 direct costs annually in each of the 5 years.funds may be used only for those expenses that are directly related to and necessary for the career development of k12 scholars and must be expended in conformance with omb cost principles and the nih grants policy statement.the award budget includes salary support for the pd(s)/pi(s) and scholars, research and development support, and administrative support costs.the project award duration for this funding opportunity may not exceed 5 years.individuals designing, directing, and implementing the career development program may request salary and fringe benefits appropriate for the person-months devoted to the program. salaries requested may not exceed the levels commensurate with the institution's policy for similar positions and may not exceed the congressionally mandated cap. if mentoring interactions and other activities with scholars are considered a regular part of an individual's academic duties, then mentoring and other interactions with scholars are non-reimbursable from grant funds.up to 1.2 person-months total effort per annum may be allocated for all pds/pis of the k12 program to partially offset their salaries and associated fringe benefit costs, depending on commitment of effort (https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/notice-files/not-od-16-045.html). these salary and fringe benefit expenses must be included in section a of the r&r budget.salary requests for the program faculty/mentors are not allowed.scholars are individuals who are appointed to the program and benefit from the proposed activities and experiences involved in the career development program. scholar costs must be justified as specifically required for the proposed career development program and based on institutional policies for salaries paid to individuals in similar positions, regardless of the source of funds. these expenses must be itemized in the proposed budget.scholar salaries can be requested up to $100,000, in accordance with k-awardee salary guidelines, along with associated fringe benefits.the total salary requested for scholars must be established on the base salary of a full-time, 12-month staff appointment. scholars are required to devote a minimum of 9 person-months (75%) of full-time professional effort to conducting health-related research with the remaining effort devoted to activities related to the development of a successful research career. surgeon-scientists with surgical duties may request a minimum of 6 person-months (50% full-time professional effort) to the k12. a clear justification must be provided in the application when requesting less than 75% full-time professional effort (less than 9 person-months). the sponsoring institution may supplement the nih salary contribution up to a level that is consistent with the institution's salary scale. however, supplementation may not be from federal funds unless specifically authorized by the federal program from which such funds are derived. (https://grants.nih.gov/grants/policy/nihgps/html5/section_12/12.8_allowable_and_unallowable_costs.htm#salariesscholar appointments are up to two (2) years in length, with the option of an extra year for scholars who would benefit. the application must clearly indicate the number of scholar appointments proposed for each year. candidates must have a full-time appointment at the applicant institution or a partnering institution. scholar support is provided for a minimum of two years and a maximum of five years of consecutive funding for each scholar, consisting of 12-month appointments, provided their progress towards an independent academic career is on track and satisfactory.scholar research and development support: up to $30,000 per individual scholar may be provided for the following types of research-related expenses: (a) research expenses, such as supplies, equipment, and technical personnel; (b) tuition and fees related to required career development courses and activities; (c) travel to scientific meetings or training that the institution determines to be necessary for the individual’s career development experience; and (d) statistical services including personnel and computer time. these funds may be pooled for program-wide activities only if such activities support the career development of all scholars. it is expected that the k12 scholars will be working in a funded research environment and that support provided by the k12 grant will augment existing research support to the scholar. these expenses must be itemized in section f of the r&r budget.for information regarding nih policy on determining full-time professional effort for career awards, see: nih grants policy statement.in years other than year 1 of a new award, if applicable and justified, up to $26,000 per year may be requested to defray the costs of a consultant, program administrator, and/or program assistant with responsibilities directly associated with the institutional career development program; salaries must be commensurate with institutional policy for similar positions and specifically identified and justified. when applicable, this expense must be itemized in section b of the r&r budget.travel for key persons and advisory committee members must be justified as specifically required by the proposed program and must not duplicate items generally available for similar programs at the applicant institution. these expenses must be itemized in section d of the r&r budget.travel funds at the rate of $1,500 per person will be provided to defray the travel costs to attend a k12 community conference (a regular conference voluntarily organized by an institution(s) with an nci k12 award for the purpose of gathering k12 scholars and mentors for exchange of knowledge, career development and networking). each year, one mentor and about half the total scholars will be supported. it is anticipated that a scholar will attend this conference in their first year of support, and if applicable again in their third year. each program would decide who would receive this funding giving priority to scholars who have not previously received it and based on the scholar’s ability to travel at the time of the conference as well as standing in the program. other scholars/mentors/program leaders could attend using funds from their institution as available.indirect costs (also known as facilities & administrative [f&a] costs) are reimbursed at 8% of modified total direct costs (exclusive of tuition and fees, consortium costs in excess of $25,000, and expenditures for equipment), rather than on the basis of a negotiated rate agreement.nih grants policies as described in the nih grants policy statement will apply to the applications submitted and awards made from this foa.higher education institutionsthe following types of higher education institutions are always encouraged to apply for nih support as public or private institutions of higher education:nonprofits other than institutions of higher educationgovernmentsotherthe sponsoring institution must assure support for the proposed program. appropriate institutional commitment to the program includes the provision of adequate staff, facilities, and educational resources that can contribute to the planned program.the applicant institution must have a strong and high-quality research program in the area(s) proposed under this foa and must have the requisite faculty, staff, potential trainees and facilities on site to conduct the proposed institutional program. in many cases, it is anticipated that the proposed program will complement other ongoing research training programs occurring at the applicant institution and that a substantial number of program faculty will have active research projects in which participating trainees may gain relevant experiences consistent with their research interests and goals.non-domestic (non-u.s.) entities (foreign institutions) are not eligible to apply.non-domestic (non-u.s.) components of u.s. organizations are not eligible to apply.foreign components, as defined in the nih grants policy statement, are allowed.applicant organizationsapplicant organizations must complete and maintain the following registrations as described in the sf 424 (r&r) application guide to be eligible to apply for or receive an award. all registrations must be completed prior to the application being submitted. registration can take 6 weeks or more, so applicants should begin the registration process as soon as possible. the nih policy on late submission of grant applications states that failure to complete registrations in advance of a due date is not a valid reason for a late submission.program directors/principal investigators (pd(s)/pi(s))all pd(s)/pi(s) must have an era commons account. pd(s)/pi(s) should work with their organizational officials to either create a new account or to affiliate their existing account with the applicant organization in era commons. if the pd/pi is also the organizational signing official, they must have two distinct era commons accounts, one for each role. obtaining an era commons account can take up to 2 weeks.any individual(s) with the skills, knowledge, and resources necessary to carry out the proposed research training program as the training program director/principal investigator (training pd/pi) is invited to work with his/her organization to develop an application for support. individuals from underrepresented racial and ethnic groups as well as individuals with disabilities are always encouraged to apply for nih support. see, reminder: notice of nih's encouragement of applications supporting individuals from underrepresented ethnic and racial groups as well as individuals with disabilities, not-od-22-019. for institutions/organizations proposing multiple pds/pis, visit the multiple program director/principal investigator policy and submission details in the senior/key person profile (expanded) component of the sf 424 (r&r) application guide.the pd(s)/pi(s) should be an established investigator in the scientific area in which the application is targeted and capable of providing both administrative and scientific leadership to the development and implementation of the proposed program. the pd(s)/pi(s) will be responsible for the selection and appointment of scholars to the approved career development program and for the overall direction, management, administration, and evaluation of the program. the pd(s)/pi(s) will be expected to monitor and assess the program and submit all documents and reports as required. the pd(s)/pi(s) has responsibility for the day-to-day administration of the program and is responsible for appointing members of the advisory committee, using their recommendations to determine the appropriate allotment of funds. the pd(s)/pi(s) will be expected to monitor and assess the program and submit all documents and reports as required.the pd(s)/pi(s) are expected to have independent r01 and/or r01-equivalent cancer-focused grant support at the time of application and award. for the nci k12, r01 or r01-equivalent awards (https://grants.nih.gov/grants/glossary.htm#r01equivalentgrant) are defined as grants or contracts of at least 3 years in duration and $150,000 per year in direct costs, including those supporting clinical trials.this foa does not require cost sharing as defined in the nih grants policy statement.applicant organizations may submit more than one application, provided that each application is programmatically distinct.the nih will not accept duplicate or highly overlapping applications under review at the same time per 2.3.7.4 submission of resubmission application. this means that the nih will not accept:program faculty should have strong records as researchers, including recent publications and successful competition for research support in the area of the proposed research training program. program faculty should also have a record of research training, including successful, former trainees who have established productive careers relevant to the nih mission. researchers from diverse backgrounds, including racial and ethnic minorities, persons with disabilities, and women are encouraged to participate as mentors.scholars to be supported by the institutional career development program must be at the career level for which the planned program is intended, should not have reached research independence, and should benefit from the proposed activities and experiences involved in the career development program. all scholars are required to devote a minimum of 9 person-months (75% of full-time professional effort) during the appointment on the k12 award. surgeon-scientists with surgical duties may request a minimum of 6 person-months (50% full-time professional effort) to the k12. a clear justification must be provided in the application when requesting less than 75% full-time professional effort (less than 9 person-months).scholars on the k12 award must be individuals with a clinical doctoral degree. such degrees include, but are not limited to, the md, do, dds, dmd, od, dc, pharmd, nd (doctor of naturopathy), and dvm. individuals with the phd or other doctoral degree in clinical disciplines such as medical physics, clinical psychology, nursing, clinical genetics, speech-language pathology, audiology, or rehabilitation are also eligible. non-clinically trained phds or phds without clinical/patient responsibilities are not eligiblescholars must be citizens or noncitizen national of the united states or have been lawfully admitted for permanent residence at the time of appointment. details on citizenship requirements are available in the nih grants policy statement.it is acknowledged that, among all medical specialties, surgeons require significant clinical activity to maintain their clinical competency skills and, in general, may be unable to devote the required level of effort of at least 9 person-months (75%) to research and career development activities on mentored career development awards.nci will allow u.s.-licensed surgeon-scientists with active surgical duties to request less than the required 9 person-months (75%) full-time professional effort under a k12 career development award for the specific purpose of maintaining specialty clinical competency. scholars may not request less than 6 person-months (50%) full-time professional effort devoted to research and career development activities. scholars must provide a justification clearly stating the reason(s) for the reduced amount of effort.a copy of the scholar's current u.s. clinical license (and board certification if applicable) must be provided, and all relevant information—surgical training, clinical license, expiration date, board certification—must be present in the scholar’s nih biosketch.the application forms package specific to this opportunity must be accessed through assist, grants.gov workspace or an institutional system-to-system solution. links to apply using assist or grants.gov workspace are available in part 1 of this foa. see your administrative office for instructions if you plan to use an institutional system-to-system solution.it is critical that applicants follow the training (t) instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide except where instructed in this funding opportunity announcement to do otherwise. conformance to the requirements in the application guide is required and strictly enforced. applications that are out of compliance with these instructions may be delayed or not accepted for review.for information on application submission and receipt, visit frequently asked questions – application guide, electronic submission of grant applications.all page limitations described in the sf424 (r&r) application guide and the table of page limits must be followed.instructions for application submissionthe following section supplements the instructions found in the sf424 (r&r) application guide and should be used for preparing an application to this foa.follow all instructions provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.follow all instructions provided in the sf424 (r&r) application.follow all instructions provided in the sf424 (r&r) application, with the following additional modifications:substitute the term “scholars” for all references to “trainees” in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, and substitute the term “career development” for all references to “training” in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.project summary/abstract. provide an abstract of the entire application. include the objectives, rationale and design of the research career development program, as well as key activities in the training plan. indicate the planned duration of appointments, the projected number of scholars including their levels (i.e. , postdoctoral, instructor, faculty), and intended scholar outcomes.other attachments. an advisory committee is a required component of a training program. provide a plan for the appointment of an advisory committee to monitor progress of the[career development] program. the composition, roles, responsibilities, and desired expertise of committee members, frequency of committee meetings, and other relevant information should be included. describe how the advisory committee will evaluate the overall effectiveness of the program. proposed advisory committee members should be named in the application if they have been invited to participate at the time the application is submitted. renewal applications with advisory committees should include the names of all committee members during the past project period. please name your file “advisory_committee.pdf”.the filename provided for each “other attachment” will be the name used for the bookmark in the electronic application in era commons.follow all instructions provided in the sf424 (r&r) application.follow all instructions provided in the sf424 (r&r) application.follow all instructions provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, with the following additional modifications:follow all instructions provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide with the following additional modifications:the phs 398 research training program plan form is comprised of the following sections:follow all instructions provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide with the following additional modifications:particular attention must be given to the required training data tables.substitute the term "scholars" for all referenced to "trainees" in the sf424 (r&r) application guide and substitute the term "career development" for all referenced to "training" in the sf424 (r&r) applications guide.training programprogram planprogram administration.institutions with existing programs must explain what distinguishes this program from the others, how their programs will synergize with one another, if applicable, and make it clear that the pool of faculty, potential scholars, and resources are robust enough to support additional programs. when a program administrator position is planned, a description of the scientific expertise, leadership, and administrative capabilities essential to coordinate a program for developing investigators must be included in the application.in the event that a clinical trial may be proposed, provide documentation of the pd(s)/pi(s) expertise, experience, and ability to oversee the organization, management and implementation of the clinical trial, including any feasibility or ancillary study, proposed by scholar(s).program faculty.the mentors should provide evidence of a track record of success in training individuals who have gone on to become independent investigators.career development.describe the immediate and long-term objectives of the program, including activities that will be used to ensure that the objectives of the program are met. the description should include planned strategies to be used to ensure that the objectives are met. the pd(s)/pi(s) should also describe past research career development activities/experiences including those of mentors, documenting the success of former scholars in establishing independent productive scientific careers.for renewal applications, highlight how the training program has evolved in response to changes in relevant scientific and technical knowledge, educational practices, and to evaluation of the training program. stress how the career development program has achieved its stated objectives during the prior project period. show how the pd(s)/pi(s) have effectively shaped the recruitment plan, and how the career development program has successfully recruited a diverse pool of qualified potential scholars. accentuate how the program has been able to develop new independent investigators. emphasize how the program has been and continues to demonstrate innovation. stress how the program has been evaluated and that the level of success has been satisfactory. describe how the results of such evaluation document a continued need for support of the program, and describe how the approach for the next project period is responsive to the results of the evaluation.institutional environment and commitment to the program.the application must include a statement from the applicant institution describing the commitment to the planned program. the institution must assure that essential time will be allowed for the pd(s)/pi(s), other faculty, mentors, as well as the required protected time for scholars selected for the program must expend a minimum 6 person-months (50%) full-time professional effort for clinician-scientists in surgical specialties and 9 person-months for all other scholars equivalent to 75% full-time professional effort.plan for instruction in the responsible conduct of researchindividuals are required to comply with the instructions for plan for instruction in the responsible conduct of research as provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.if any mentors will supervise a scholar proposing to either lead a clinical trial, or gain research experience in a clinical trial, provide documentation of his/her expertise, experience, and ability to provide guidance in the organization, management and implementation of the proposed clinical trial, ancillary, or feasibility study and help him/her to meet the study timelines.scholar candidates.in the event that a clinical trial may be proposed, discuss the potential of prospective scholars to organize, manage, and implement the proposed clinical trial, feasibility or ancillary study.appendixlimited items are allowed in the appendix. follow all instructions for the appendix as described in the sf424 (r&r) application guide; any instructions provided here are in addition to thesf424 (r&r) application guide instructions.do not use the appendix to circumvent page limits. follow all instructions for the appendix as described in the sf424 (r&r) application guide (https://grants.nih.gov/grants/policy/appendix_policy.htm#5070).all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed, with the following additional modifications:study record: phs human subjects and clinical trials informationdo not use. attempts to submit a full, detailed study record will result in a validation error.delayed onset studyif you answered “yes” to the question “are human subjects involved?” on the r&r other project information form, you must complete a delayed onset study.if you check the “anticipated clinical trial” box within your delayed onset study, then the justification attachment must acknowledge that additional clinical trial information will be provided to the awarding component before any appointed scholar begins independent clinical trial research.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.see part 1. section iii.1 for information regarding the requirement for obtaining a unique entity identifier and for completing and maintaining active registrations in system for award management (sam), nato commercial and government entity (ncage) code (if applicable), era commons, and grants.govpart i. overview information contains information about key dates and times. applicants are encouraged to submit applications before the due date to ensure they have time to make any application corrections that might be necessary for successful submission. when a submission date falls on a weekend or federal holiday, the application deadline is automatically extended to the next business day. organizations must submit applications to grants.gov (the online portal to find and apply for grants across all federal agencies). applicants must then complete the submission process by tracking the status of the application in the era commons, nih’s electronic system for grants administration. nih and grants.gov systems check the application against many of the application instructions upon submission. errors must be corrected and a changed/corrected application must be submitted to grants.gov on or before the application due date and time. if a changed/corrected application is submitted after the deadline, the application will be considered late. applications that miss the due date and time are subjected to the nih policy on late application submission.applicants are responsible for viewing their application before the due date in the era commons to ensure accurate and successful submission. information on the submission process and a definition of on-time submission are provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.this initiative is not subject to intergovernmental review.all nih awards are subject to the terms and conditions, cost principles, and other considerations described in the nih grants policy statement. pre-award costs are allowable only as described in the nih grants policy statement. any additional costs associated with the decision to allow research elective credit for short-term research training are not allowable charges on an institutional training grant.applications must be submitted electronically following the instructions described in the sf424 (r&r) application guide. paper applications will not be accepted.applicants must complete all required registrations before the application due date. section iii. eligibility information contains information about registration.for assistance with your electronic application or for more information on the electronic submission process, visit how to apply – application guide. if you encounter a system issue beyond your control that threatens your ability to complete the submission process on-time, you must follow the dealing with system issues guidance. for assistance with application submission, contact the application submission contacts in section vii.important reminders:all pd(s)/pi(s) must include their era commons id in the credential field of the senior/key person profile form. failure to register in the commons and to include a valid pd/pi commons id in the credential field will prevent the successful submission of an electronic application to nih. the applicant organization must ensure that the unique entity identifier (duns number or uei as required) provided on the application is the same number used in the organization’s profile in the era commons and for the system for award management. additional information may be found in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.see more tips for avoiding common errors.upon receipt, applications will be evaluated for completeness and compliance with application instructions by the center for scientific review, nih. applications that are incomplete or non-compliant will not be reviewed.applicants are required to follow the instructions for post-submission materials, as described in the policy. any instructions provided here are in addition to the instructions in the policy.only the review criteria described below will be considered in the review process.applications submitted to the nih in support of the nih mission are evaluated for scientific and technical merit through the nih peer review system.reviewers will provide an overall impact score to reflect their assessment of the likelihood that the proposed training program will prepare individuals for successful, productive scientific research careers and thereby exert a sustained influence on the research field(s) involved, in consideration of the following review criteria and additional review criteria (as applicable for the project proposed).reviewers will consider each of the review criteria below in the determination of the merit of the training program, and give a separate score for each. when applicable, the reviewers will consider relevant questions in the context of proposed short-term training. an application does not need to be strong in all categories to be judged likely to have major scientific impact.career development program and environmentfor applications proposing clinical trialsprogram director(s)/principal investigator(s) (pd(s)/pi(s))mentorsscholarstraining recordas applicable for the project proposed, reviewers will evaluate the following additional items while determining scientific and technical merit, and in providing an overall impact score, but will not give separate scores for these items.protections for human subjectsgenerally not applicable. reviewers should bring any concerns to the attention of the scientific review officer.inclusion of women, minorities, and individuals across the lifespangenerally not applicable. reviewers should bring any concerns to the attention of the scientific review officer.vertebrate animalsgenerally not applicable. reviewers should bring any concerns to the attention of the scientific review officer.biohazardsgenerally not applicable. reviewers should bring any concerns to the attention of the scientific review officer.training in methods for enhancing reproducibilitydoes the plan for instruction in methods for enhancing reproducibility describe how the program will provide training in scientific reasoning, rigorous research design, relevant experimental methods, consideration of relevant biological variables such as sex, authentication of key biological and/or chemical resources, quantitative approaches, and data analysis and interpretation, appropriate to field of study and the level and prior preparation of the trainees?resubmissionsfor resubmissions, the committee will evaluate the application as now presented, taking into consideration the responses to comments from the previous scientific review group and changes made to the project.renewalsfor renewals, the committee will consider the progress made in the last funding period, including on the recruitment plan to enhance diversity, and training in the responsible conduct of research.revisionsnot applicableas applicable for the project proposed, reviewers will consider each of the following items, but will not give scores for these items, and should not consider them in providing an overall impact score.recruitment plan to enhance diversitypeer reviewers will separately evaluate the recruitment plan to enhance diversity after the overall score has been determined. reviewers will examine the strategies to be used in the recruitment of prospective individuals from underrepresented groups. the plan will be rated as acceptable or unacceptable, and the consensus of the review committee will be included in an administrative note in the summary statement.training in the responsible conduct of researchall applications for support under this foa must include a plan to fulfill nih requirements for instruction in the responsible conduct of research (rcr). taking into account the specific characteristics of the training program, the level of trainee experience, and the particular circumstances of the trainees, the reviewers will evaluate the adequacy of the proposed rcr training in relation to the following five required components: 1) format - does the plan satisfactorily address the format of instruction, e.g., lectures, coursework and/or real-time discussion groups, including face-to-face interaction? (a plan involving only on-line instruction is not acceptable.); 2) subject matter – does the plan include a sufficiently broad selection of subject matter, such as conflict of interest, authorship, data management, human subjects and animal use, laboratory safety, research misconduct, research ethics? 3) faculty participation - does the plan adequately describe how faculty will participate in the instruction? for renewal applications, are all training faculty who served as course directors, speakers, lecturers, and/or discussion leaders during the past project period named in the application? 4) duration of instruction - does the plan meet the minimum requirements for rcr, i.e., at least eight contact hours of instruction? 5) frequency of instruction – does the plan meet the minimum requirements for rcr, i.e., at least once during each career stage (undergraduate, post-baccalaureate, predoctoral, postdoctoral, and faculty levels) and at a frequency of no less than once every four years?plans and past record will be rated as acceptable or unacceptable, and the summary statement will provide the consensus of the review committee.select agent researchreviewers will assess the information provided in this section of the application, including (1) the select agent(s) to be used in the proposed research, (2) the registration status of all entities where select agent(s) will be used, (3) the procedures that will be used to monitor possession use and transfer of select agent(s), and (4) plans for appropriate biosafety, biocontainment, and security of the select agent(s).budget and period of supportreviewers will consider whether the budget and the requested period of support are fully justified and reasonable in relation to the proposed research.applications will be evaluated for scientific and technical merit by (an) appropriate scientific review group(s), convened by nci, in accordance with nih peer review policy and procedures, using the stated review criteria. assignment to a scientific review group will be shown in the era commons.as part of the scientific peer review, all applications:applications will be assigned to the appropriate nih institute or center. applications will compete for available funds with all other recommended applications . following initial peer review, recommended applications will receive a second level of review by the national cancer advisory board. the following will be considered in making funding decisions:after the peer review of the application is completed, the pd/pi will be able to access his or her summary statement (written critique) via the era commons. refer to part 1 for dates for peer review, advisory council review, and earliest start date information regarding the disposition of applications is available in the nih grants policy statement.if the application is under consideration for funding, nih will request "just-in-time" information from the applicant as described in the nih grants policy statement. a formal notification in the form of a notice of award (noa) will be provided to the applicant organization for successful applications. the noa signed by the grants management officer is the authorizing document and will be sent via email to the recipient’s business official. recipients must comply with any funding restrictions described in section iv.5. funding restrictions. selection of an application for award is not an authorization to begin performance. any costs incurred before receipt of the noa are at the recipient's risk. these costs may be reimbursed only to the extent considered allowable pre-award costs. any application awarded in response to this foa will be subject to terms and conditions found on the award conditions and information for nih grants website. this includes any recent legislation and policy applicable to awards that is highlighted on this website.additionally, ics may specify any special reporting requirements for the proposed clinical trial to be included under ic-specific terms and conditions in the noa. for example: if the proposed clinical trial has elevated risks, ics may require closer programmatic monitoring and it may be necessary to require the awardee to provide more frequent information and data as a term of the award (e.g., to clarify issues, address and evaluate concerns, provide documentation). all additional communications and information related to programmatic monitoring must be documented and incorporated into the official project file. individual awards are based on the application submitted to, and as approved by, the nih and are subject to the ic-specific terms and conditions identified in the noa.clinicaltrials.gov: if an award provides for one or more clinical trials by law (title viii, section 801 of public law 110-85), the "responsible party" must register and submit results information for certain “applicable clinical trials” on the clinicaltrials.gov protocol registration and results system information website (https://register.clinicaltrials.gov). nih expects registration of all trials whether required under the law or not. for more information, see http://grants.nig.gov/clinicaltrials_fdaaa/.institutional review board or independent ethics committee approval: grantee institutions must ensure that the protocols are reviewed by their irb or iec. to help ensure the safety of participants enrolled in nih-funded studies, the awardee must provide nih copies of documents related to all major changes in the status of ongoing protocols.data and safety monitoring requirements: the nih policy for data and safety monitoring requires oversight and monitoring of all nih-conducted or -supported human biomedical and behavioral intervention studies (clinical trials) to ensure the safety of participants and the validity and integrity of the data. further information concerning these requirements is found at http://grants.nih.gov/grants/policy/hs/data_safety.htm and in the application instructions (sf424 (r&r) and phs 398).investigational new drug or investigational device exemption requirements: consistent with federal regulations, clinical research projects involving the use of investigational therapeutics, vaccines, or other medical interventions (including licensed products and devices for a purpose other than that for which they were licensed) in humans under a research protocol must be performed under a food and drug administration (fda) investigational new drug (ind) or investigational device exemption (ide).all nih grant and cooperative agreement awards include the nih grants policy statement as part of the noa. for these terms of award, see the nih grants policy statement part ii: terms and conditions of nih grant awards, subpart a: general and part ii: terms and conditions of nih grant awards, subpart b: terms and conditions for specific types of grants, recipients, and activities, including of note, but not limited to:if a recipient is successful and receives a notice of award, in accepting the award, the recipient agrees that any activities under the award are subject to all provisions currently in effect or implemented during the period of the award, other department regulations and policies in effect at the time of the award, and applicable statutory provisions.should the applicant organization successfully compete for an award, recipients of federal financial assistance (ffa) from hhs must administer their programs in compliance with federal civil rights laws that prohibit discrimination on the basis of race, color, national origin, disability, age and, in some circumstances, religion, conscience, and sex (including gender identify, sexual orientation, and pregnancy). this includes ensuring programs are accessible to persons with limited english proficiency and persons with disabilities. the hhs office for civil rights provides guidance on complying with civil rights laws enforced by hhs. please see https://www.hhs.gov/civil-rights/for-providers/provider-obligations/index.html and https://www.hhs.gov/civil-rights/for-individuals/nondiscrimination/index.htmlhhs recognizes that research projects are often limited in scope for many reasons that are nondiscriminatory, such as the principal investigator’s scientific interest, funding limitations, recruitment requirements, and other considerations. thus, criteria in research protocols that target or exclude certain populations are warranted where nondiscriminatory justifications establish that such criteria are appropriate with respect to the health or safety of the subjects, the scientific study design, or the purpose of the research. for additional guidance regarding how the provisions apply to nih grant programs, please contact the scientific/research contact that is identified in section vii under agency contacts of this foa.please contact the hhs office for civil rights for more information about obligations and prohibitions under federal civil rights laws at https://www.hhs.gov/ocr/about-us/contact-us/index.html or call 1-800-368-1019 or tdd 1-800-537-7697.in accordance with the statutory provisions contained in section 872 of the duncan hunter national defense authorization act of fiscal year 2009 (public law 110-417), nih awards will be subject to the federal awardee performance and integrity information system (fapiis) requirements. fapiis requires federal award making officials to review and consider information about an applicant in the designated integrity and performance system (currently fapiis) prior to making an award. an applicant, at its option, may review information in the designated integrity and performance systems accessible through fapiis and comment on any information about itself that a federal agency previously entered and is currently in fapiis. the federal awarding agency will consider any comments by the applicant, in addition to other information in fapiis, in making a judgement about the applicant’s integrity, business ethics, and record of performance under federal awards when completing the review of risk posed by applicants as described in 45 cfr part 75.205 and 2 cfr part 200.206 “federal awarding agency review of risk posed by applicants.” this provision will apply to all nih grants and cooperative agreements except fellowships.not applicablewhen multiple years are involved, recipients will be required to submit the research performance progress report (rppr) annually. continuation support will not be provided until the required forms are submitted and accepted.failure by the recipient institution to submit required forms in a timely, complete, and accurate manner may result in an expenditure disallowance or a delay in any continuation funding for the award.the federal funding accountability and transparency act of 2006 (transparency act), includes a requirement for recipients of federal grants to report information about first-tier subawards and executive compensation under federal assistance awards issued in fy2011 or later. all recipients of applicable nih grants and cooperative agreements are required to report to the federal subaward reporting system (fsrs) available at www.fsrs.gov on all subawards over $25,000. see the nih grants policy statement for additional information on this reporting requirement.progress reports (rpprs) should provide information on all scholars for the present grant year as instructed plus:a final rppr, invention statement, and the expenditure data portion of the federal financial report are required for closeout of an award as described in the nih grants policy statement. evaluation results should be included as part of the final rppr.in accordance with the regulatory requirements provided at 45 cfr 75.113 and 2 cfr part 200.113 and appendix xii to 45 cfr part 75 and 2 cfr part 200, recipients that have currently active federal grants, cooperative agreements, and procurement contracts from all federal awarding agencies with a cumulative total value greater than $10,000,000 for any period of time during the period of performance of a federal award, must report and maintain the currency of information reported in the system for award management (sam) about civil, criminal, and administrative proceedings in connection with the award or performance of a federal award that reached final disposition within the most recent five-year period. the recipient must also make semiannual disclosures regarding such proceedings. proceedings information will be made publicly available in the designated integrity and performance system (currently fapiis). this is a statutory requirement under section 872 of public law 110-417, as amended (41 u.s.c. 2313). as required by section 3010 of public law 111-212, all information posted in the designated integrity and performance system on or after april 15, 2011, except past performance reviews required for federal procurement contracts, will be publicly available. full reporting requirements and procedures are found in appendix xii to 45 cfr part 75 and 2 cfr part 200 – award term and condition for recipient integrity and performance matters.in carrying out its stewardship of human resource-related programs, the nih may request information essential to an assessment of the effectiveness of this program from databases and from participants themselves. participants may be contacted after the completion of this award for periodic updates on various aspects of their employment history, publications, support from research grants or contracts, honors and awards, professional activities, and other information helpful in evaluating the impact of the program.we encourage inquiries concerning this funding opportunity and welcome the opportunity to answer questions from potential applicants.era commons help desk (questions regarding assist, era commons, application errors and warnings, documenting system problems that threaten submission by the due date, and post-submission issues) finding help online: http://grants.nih.gov/support/ (preferred method of contact)telephone: 301-402-7469 or 866-504-9552 (toll free)general grants information (questions regarding application instructions, application processes, and nih grant resources) email: grantsinfo@nih.gov (preferred method of contact) telephone: 301-637-3015grants.gov customer support (questions regarding grants.gov registration and workspace) contact center telephone: 800-518-4726 email: support@grants.govmark damico, ph.d.national cancer institute (nci)telephone: 240-276-5639email: damicomw@mail.nih.govreferral officernational cancer institute (nci)telephone 301-496-3428email: ncirefof@dea.nci.nih.govamy bartosch office of grants administrationnational cancer institute telephone: 240-276-6375 email: amy.bartosch@nih.govrecently issued trans-nih policy notices may affect your application submission. a full list of policy notices published by nih is provided in the nih guide for grants and contracts. all awards are subject to the terms and conditions, cost principles, and other considerations described in the nih grants policy statement.awards are made under the authorization of section 487 of the public health service act as amended (42 usc 288) and under federal regulations 42 cfr 66.awards are made under the authorization of sections 301 and 405 of the public health service act as amended (42 usc 241 and 284) and under federal regulations 42 cfr part 52 and 45 cfr part 75.weekly toc for this announcement nih funding opportunities and noticesnote: for help accessing pdf, rtf, ms word, excel, powerpoint, audio or video files, see help downloading files.