Device-Based Treatments for Substance Use Disorders (UG3/UH3, Clinical Trial Optional)
national institutes of health (nih)national institute on drug abuse (nida)ug3/uh3 exploratory/developmental phased award cooperative agreementreissue of par-18-494 see notices of special interest associated with this funding opportunitynot-od-23-012 reminder: forms-h grant application forms and instructions must be used for due dates on or after january 25, 2023 - new grant application instructions now available not-od-22-190 - adjustments to nih and ahrq grant application due dates between september 22 and september 30, 2022october 28, 2021 - reminder: forms-g grant application forms & instructions must be used for due dates on or after january 25, 2022 - new grant application instructions now available. see notice not-od-22-018.september 13, 2021 - updates to the non-discrimination legal requirements for nih recipients. see notice not-od-21-181. august 5, 2021 - new nih "forms-g" grant application forms and instructions coming for due dates on or after january 25, 2022. see notice not-od-21-169.august 5, 2021 - update: notification of upcoming change in federal-wide unique entity identifier requirements. see notice not-od-21-170april 20, 2021 - expanding requirement for era commons ids to all senior/key personnel. see notice not-od-21-109 april 08, 2021 - notice of special interest (nosi): improving patient adherence to treatment and prevention regimens to promote health. see notice not-od-21-100. august 26, 2020 - notice of correction to eligibility in nih funding opportunity announcements. see notice not-od-20-171.nonesee section iii. 3. additional information on eligibility.93.279, 93.273the purpose of this funding opportunity announcement (foa) is to accelerate the development of devices to treat substance use disorders (suds). the continuing advances in technologies offer unprecedented opportunities to develop neuromodulatory or neurophysiological devices that are safe and effective sud treatments. the objective is to move devices to their next step in the fda approval process, with the ultimate goal of generating new, fda approved device-based treatments for suds.applications may focus on the pre-clinical and/or clinical development and testing of new devices or existing devices approved for other indications. applications may evaluate the mechanism of action of a device.the ug3/uh3 cooperative agreement involves 2 phases. the ug3 phase, for up to 2 years, is designed to support a project with specific milestones to be accomplished by the end of the period. the uh3 phase is to provide funding for up to 3 additional years following successful completion of the ug3. ug3 projects that meet their milestones will be administratively considered by nida and prioritized for transition to the uh3 phase. investigators submitting to this foa must address both ug3 and uh3 phases.30 days prior to the application duedecember 15, 2020; august 10, 2021; december 14, 2021; august 10, 2022; december 14, 2022; august 10, 2023all applications are due by 5:00 pm local time of applicant organization. all types of non-aids applications allowed for this funding opportunity announcement are due on the listed date(s).applicants are encouraged to apply early to allow adequate time to make any corrections to errors found in the application during the submission process by the due date.december 15, 2020; august 10, 2021; december 14, 2021; august 10, 2022; december 14, 2022; august 10, 2023by 5:00 pm local time of applicant organization. all types of non-aids applications allowed for this funding opportunity announcement are due on these dates. applicants are encouraged to apply early to allow adequate time to make any corrections to errors found in the application during the submission process by the due date.march 2021, october 2021, march 2022, october 2022, march 2023, october 2023may 2021, january 2022, may 2022, january 2023, may 2023, january 2024august 2021, april 2022, august 2022, april 2023, august 2023, april 2024not applicableit is critical that applicants follow the instructions in the research (r) instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide,except where instructed to do otherwise (in this foa or in a notice from nih guide for grants and contracts ).conformance to all requirements (both in the application guide and the foa) is required and strictly enforced. applicants must read and follow all application instructions in the application guide as well as any program-specific instructions noted in section iv. when the program-specific instructions deviate from those in the application guide, follow the program-specific instructions.applications that do not comply with these instructions may be delayed or not accepted for review.there are several options available to submit your application through grants.gov to nih and department of health and human services partners. you must use one of these submission options to access the application forms for this opportunity.backgroundsubstance use disorders (suds) continue to have a substantial adverse impact in the united states, resulting in costs of more than $700 billion annually due to health care expenditures, lost earnings, and expenses associated with crime and accidents. there are effective pharmacological and behavioral treatments, but the long-term success rate is low and not all individuals are responsive. furthermore, approved treatments are not available for cannabis, methamphetamine and cocaine use disorders. the development of safe and effective therapeutic devices for suds represents an opportunity to address the significant public health need for new sud interventions.with the approval of neuromodulatory devices for treatment of mental health disorders such as depression and obsessive compulsive disorder, interest has rapidly grown around applying these and related technologies to suds. studies examining the effects of neuromodulation on nicotine, alcohol, cocaine, and other suds have reported some therapeutic effects. further work, however, is needed to strengthen and build upon these results. high priority areas of research include understanding the relationship between changes in brain circuitry and behavioral responses, what sud behavioral activities are responsive, how long does the altered behavioral response last, how can devices be used together with fda approved treatments, and are subsequent treatments needed to maintain the behavioral response.research objectivesthis foa seeks to support research into neuromodulatory technologies to treat suds. these technologies include, but are not limited to, transcranial magnetic stimulation, transcranial direct current stimulation, vagal stimulation, deep-brain stimulation, and others. also of interest are technologies that may not directly modify neuronal function but report on or alter neurophysiology that affect outcomes. this foa strongly encourages the testing of device-based interventions previously approved/marketed for non-sud disorders, as well as new interventions in active development.understanding how these new treatment modalities work is of primary importance to this foa. in neuromodulatory technologies, for example, there are multiple coil types which can result in different breadths and depths of biologic effect. for studies that seek to understand how the neuromodulatory and neurophysiological interventions function, early stage endpoints should incorporate objective measures that examine both the delivered dosage/treatment duration and the proposed mechanism of action of the intervention, and should determine if the intervention target has been modulated.areas of interest to this foa include understanding the effect of the intervention on circuit-based targets, as well as to characterizing the breadth and stability of the behavioral effect. the questions may include, but are not limited to:all aspects of dose delivered by a device should be thoroughly defined. this includes, when applicable,studies are strongly encouraged, when appropriate, to include evaluation of circuit-directed target engagement, using on-line (e.g., tms/fmri interleaving, eeg, pet) or off-line (e.g., pet, fmri/rsfcmri, mrs) approaches, depending on the nature of the spatial anatomical and/or neural oscillatory targets. careful attention should be paid to the time-course of action. for rapidly acting interventions, where changes in circuit-based targets occur acutely during administration, it may be most appropriate to use pharmacodynamic outcome measures (e.g. neurocognitive task performance, craving).sham/placebo stimulus comparators should be included when appropriate. if a sham is used, demonstration must be provided not only of adequate masking procedures but also lack of biological action that would exert cns effects.if applicable, investigators should design studies to evaluate potential sex/gender differences. when appropriate, methods to evaluate subjects' compliance with the study treatments should be included, such as when integrative pharmacologic or behavioral approaches are used.for studies that include device development, applications are expected to include a go/no-go decision tree regulatory pathway with clear milestones. prospective applicants are encouraged to discuss the development plan with the appropriate regulatory authorities at the fda.for studies requiring an investigational device exemption (ide), applicants are expected to provide confirmation of an existing ide, or describe the status of any such pending regulatory submissions. if an ide application is not submitted by the time of the grant application submission, the applicant is expected to describe the plan and timeline for submitting the request and obtaining the ide prior to the initiation of a grant award. if the device is exempt from the ide, the grant application is expected to include the justification and documentation for why the device would be exempt.applicants are strongly encouraged to consult with nida staff when developing plans for an application (see agency contacts, section vii). this early contact will provide an opportunity to clarify nida policies and guidelines, identify whether the proposed project is consistent with nida program priorities, and discuss how to develop an appropriate project timeline, which is subject to peer review.ug3/uh3 phases of researchthis foa uses a phased innovation approach (ug3/uh3). in the ug3 phase, milestones should be designed around the next stage of device or treatment development. the ug3 phase provides support for up to two years with specific milestones determined by the investigator and expected to be accomplished by the end of the ug3 phase. at that time, the grant will undergo administrative review by nida staff to determine if the milestones are successfully accomplished. if they are, then the application may be awarded for up to 3 additional years of support (uh3 phase).milestones and ug3/uh3 transition: applicants must plan for both the ug3 and uh3 phase. the ug3 section is expected to include a description of an entry point and the milestone(s) that will be reached at the end of the phase. the milestones should include quantifiable metrics to determine success of the ug3. to successfully transition to the uh3 phase, the project should reach the milestones outlined in the application. additional milestone(s) may be negotiated before or after funding decisions are made.the ug3 phasethe ug3 phase should provide an entry and exit point (milestone) for the device and treatment in the fda approval pathway. the focus should be on moving forward to the next stage of testing and validation.the specific activities and milestones appropriate for the ug3 phase will depend on the type of intervention under study and its stage of development. grant applications should provide clear, measurable milestones to be accomplished at the end of the ug3. generally, these activities and milestones may include:the uh3 phasefunding for the uh3 phase is contingent on successfully meeting the milestones in the ug3 phase (see section vi. award administration information, 1. award notices for further information). the uh3 phase supports the next step in the development of the intervention. applicants are expected to provide the entry and exit points of the proposed research in the development continuum. the application is expected to provide quantifiable milestones to determine success of the uh3.activities for the uh3 may include:special considerationsnational advisory council on drug abuse recommended guidelines for the administration of drugs to human subjects: the national advisory council on drug abuse (nacda) recognizes the importance of research involving the administration of drugs with abuse potential, and dependence or addiction liability, to human subjects. potential applicants are encouraged to obtain and review these recommendations of council before submitting an application that will administer compounds to human subjects. the guidelines are available on nida's web site at http://www.drugabuse.gov/funding/clinical-research/nacda-guidelines-administration-drugs-to-human-subjects.points to consider regarding tobacco industry funding of nida applicants: the national advisory council on drug abuse (nacda) encourages nida and its grantees to consider the points it has set forth with regard to existing or prospective sponsored research agreements with tobacco companies or their related entities and the impact of acceptance of tobacco industry funding on nida's credibility and reputation within the scientific community. please see http://www.drugabuse.gov/about-nida/advisory-boards-groups/national-advisory-council-drug-abuse-nacda/council-statements/points-to-consider-regarding- for details.data harmonization for substance abuse and addiction via the phenx toolkit: nida strongly encourages investigators involved in human-subjects studies to employ a common set of tools and resources that will promote the collection of comparable data across studies and to do so by incorporating the measures from the core and specialty collections, which are available in the substance abuse and addiction collection of the phenx toolkit (www.phenxtoolkit.org). please see not-da-12-008 (http://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/notice-files/not-da-12-008.html) for further details.see section viii. other information for award authorities and regulations.cooperative agreement: a support mechanism used when there will be substantial federal scientific or programmatic involvement. substantial involvement means that, after award, nih scientific or program staff will assist, guide, coordinate, or participate in project activities. see section vi.2 for additional information about the substantial involvement for this foa.the oer glossary and the sf424 (r&r) application guide provide details on these application types. only those application types listed here are allowed for this foa.need help determining whether you are doing a clinical trial?the number of awards is contingent upon nih appropriations and the submission of a sufficient number of meritorious applicationsapplication budgets are limited to $500,000 direct costs for each year of the ug3 phase, but are not limited for the uh3 phase. however, budgets need to reflect the actual needs of the proposed projectthe project period is limited to 2 years for the ug3 phase and 3 years for the uh3 phase.nih grants policies as described in the nih grants policy statement will apply to the applications submitted and awards made from this foa.higher education institutionsthe following types of higher education institutions are always encouraged to apply for nih support as public or private institutions of higher education:nonprofits other than institutions of higher educationfor-profit organizationslocal governmentsfederal governmentsothernon-domestic (non-u.s.) entities (foreign institutions) are eligible to apply.non-domestic (non-u.s.) components of u.s. organizations are eligible to apply.foreign components, as defined in the nih grants policy statement, are allowed.applicant organizationsapplicant organizations must complete and maintain the following registrations as described in the sf 424 (r&r) application guide to be eligible to apply for or receive an award. all registrations must be completed prior to the application being submitted. registration can take 6 weeks or more, so applicants should begin the registration process as soon as possible. the nih policy on late submission of grant applications states that failure to complete registrations in advance of a due date is not a valid reason for a late submission.program directors/principal investigators (pd(s)/pi(s))all pd(s)/pi(s) must have an era commons account. pd(s)/pi(s) should work with their organizational officials to either create a new account or to affiliate their existing account with the applicant organization in era commons. if the pd/pi is also the organizational signing official, they must have two distinct era commons accounts, one for each role. obtaining an era commons account can take up to 2 weeks.any individual(s) with the skills, knowledge, and resources necessary to carry out the proposed research as the program director(s)/principal investigator(s) (pd(s)/pi(s)) is invited to work with his/her organization to develop an application for support. individuals from underrepresented racial and ethnic groups as well as individuals with disabilities are always encouraged to apply for nih support.for institutions/organizations proposing multiple pds/pis, visit the multiple program director/principal investigator policy and submission details in the senior/key person profile (expanded) component of the sf424 (r&r) application guide.this foa does not require cost sharing as defined in the nih grants policy statement.applicant organizations may submit more than one application, provided that each application is scientifically distinct.the nih will not accept duplicate or highly overlapping applications under review at the same time. this means that the nih will not accept:the application forms package specific to this opportunity must be accessed through assist, grants.gov workspace or an institutional system-to-system solution. links to apply using assist or grants.gov workspace are available in part 1 of this foa. see your administrative office for instructions if you plan to use an institutional system-to-system solution.letter of intentalthough a letter of intent is not required, is not binding, and does not enter into the review of a subsequent application, the information that it contains allows ic staff to estimate the potential review workload and plan the review.by the date listed in part 1. overview information, prospective applicants are asked to submit a letter of intent that includes the following information:the letter of intent should be sent to: nidaletterofintent@mail.nih.govapplicants are encouraged to send the letter of intent by email to the email address above but as an alternative the letter may also be sent to:office of extramural policy and review national institute on drug abuse der/oepr 3wfn 9th floor, msc 6021 301 north stonestreet ave bethesda, md 20892all page limitations described in the sf424 application guide and the table of page limits must be followed.note: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023, the data management and sharing (dms) plan will be attached in the other plan(s) attachment in forms-h and subsequent application forms packages. for due dates on or before january 24, 2023, the data sharing plan and genomic data sharing plan gds) will continue to be attached in the resource sharing plan attachment in forms-g application forms packages.the following section supplements the instructions found in the sf424 (r&r) application guide and should be used for preparing an application to this foa.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.other plan(s):note: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023, the data management and sharing plan will be attached in the other plan(s) attachment in forms-h and subsequent application forms packages. for due dates on or before january 24, 2023, the data sharing plan and genomic data sharing plan gds) will continue to be attached in the resource sharing plan attachment in forms-g application forms packages.all applicants planning research (funded or conducted in whole or in part by nih) that results in the generation of scientific data are required to comply with the instructions for the data management and sharing plan. all applications, regardless of the amount of direct costs requested for any one year, must address a data management and sharing plan.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed, with the following additional instructions:research strategy:investigators should describe how the project addresses an important problem or a critical barrier to progress in the field. describe the scientific premise and indicate how scientific knowledge, technical capability, and/or clinical practice will be improved if the aims are achieved. describe how successful completion of the aims may change the concepts, methods, technologies, treatments, services, or preventative interventions that drive this field. a strong design to allow for the validation or rejection of the neural target or device being tested should be integral to the study. indicate how the characteristics and rationale of the project make it ready for the proposed phase of testing.without duplicating information in the biosketches, descriptions should be provided showing the investigators can work as a team and have the necessary methodological and statistical expertise to evaluate the proposed outcomes. the environment should support timely subject recruitment and completion of both the ug3 and uh3 phases.investigators should provide information regarding the specific regulatory pathway (e.g., will the project require an ide) and a clear and feasible plan to address all regulatory requirements (e.g., describe the plan for a q-submission to discuss the regulatory requirements with the fda and receive their feedback). if an ide is required, describe the specific plans to submit and obtain the fda approval. go/no-go milestones for the ug3 phase should be clear, quantitative and achievable. a successful ug3 phase should set the stage for the larger uh3 phase. describe how the research strategy for the ug3 phase utilizes reliable, objective and valid measures of target engagement to definitively test the intervention's ability to modulate the target. the uh3 phase should provide a more focused study that will move the intervention forward for applications proposing clinical trialsthe scientific rationale and need for a clinical trial should be supported by preliminary data and information in the literature. describe how the clinical trial is necessary for testing the safety, efficacy or effectiveness of an intervention that could lead to a change in clinical practice, community behaviors or health care policy. if the trial focuses on mechanistic, behavioral, physiological, biochemical, or other biomedical endpoints, describe how the trial will advance scientific understanding.without duplicating information in the biosketches, address how the pd/pi(s) and key personnel have the expertise, experience, and ability to organize, manage and implement the proposed clinical trial and meet milestones and timelines. describe the expertise in study coordination, data management and statistics. if the study involves a multicenter trial, describe how the organizational structure is appropriate and identify a core of potential center investigators and staffing for a coordinating center.the study should be appropriate to address primary and secondary outcome variable(s)/endpoints that are clear, informative and relevant to the hypothesis being tested. explain how the study is adequately powered and designed efficiently to answer the research question(s), test the proposed hypothesis/hypotheses, and provide interpretable results. the study should be appropriate and well justified for the populations (size, gender, age, demographic group), proposed intervention arms/dose, and duration of the trial. address differences, if applicable, in the intervention effect due to sex/gender and race/ethnicity.potential ethical issues should be adequately addressed and the process for obtaining informed consent or assent appropriate. the plans for recruitment outreach, enrollment, retention, handling dropouts, missed visits, and losses to follow-up should be appropriate to ensure robust data collection. ensure that the planned recruitment timelines are feasible and have an adequate the plan to monitor accrual. address the need for randomization (or not), masking (if appropriate), controls, and inclusion/exclusion criteria. applications should discuss the plans to standardize, assure quality of, and monitor adherence to, the trial protocol and data collection or distribution guidelines.the planned analyses and statistical approach should be appropriate for the proposed study design, methods used to assign participants, and deliver interventions. include procedures for data management and quality control of data. describe the methods for standardization of procedures for data management to assess the effect of the intervention and quality control. data analysis should be completed within the proposed period of the award.resource sharing plan: individuals are required to comply with the instructions for the resource sharing plans as provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.the following modifications also apply:only limited appendix materials are allowed.follow all instructions for the appendix as described in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.when involving human subjects research, clinical research, and/or nih-defined clinical trials (and when applicable, clinical trials research experience) follow all instructions for the phs human subjects and clinical trials information form in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, with the following additional instructions:if you answered “yes” to the question “are human subjects involved?” on the r&r other project information form, you must include at least one human subjects study record using the study record: phs human subjects and clinical trials information form or delayed onset study record.study record: phs human subjects and clinical trials informationall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.note: delayed onset does not apply to a study that can be described but will not start immediately (i.e., delayed start).all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.foreign institutionsforeign (non-u.s.) institutions must follow policies described in the nih grants policy statement, and procedures for foreign institutions described throughout the sf424 (r&r) application guide.see part 1. section iii.1 for information regarding the requirement for obtaining a unique entity identifier and for completing and maintaining active registrations in system for award management (sam), nato commercial and government entity (ncage) code (if applicable), era commons, and grants.govpart i. overview information contains information about key dates and times. applicants are encouraged to submit applications before the due date to ensure they have time to make any application corrections that might be necessary for successful submission. when a submission date falls on a weekend or federal holiday, the application deadline is automatically extended to the next business day.organizations must submit applications to grants.gov (the online portal to find and apply for grants across all federal agencies). applicants must then complete the submission process by tracking the status of the application in the era commons, nih’s electronic system for grants administration. nih and grants.gov systems check the application against many of the application instructions upon submission. errors must be corrected and a changed/corrected application must be submitted to grants.gov on or before the application due date and time. if a changed/corrected application is submitted after the deadline, the application will be considered late. applications that miss the due date and time are subjected to the nih policy on late application submission.applicants are responsible for viewing their application before the due date in the era commons to ensure accurate and successful submission.information on the submission process and a definition of on-time submission are provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.this initiative is not subject to intergovernmental review.all nih awards are subject to the terms and conditions, cost principles, and other considerations described in the nih grants policy statement.pre-award costs are allowable only as described in the nih grants policy statement.applications must be submitted electronically following the instructions described in the sf424 (r&r) application guide. paper applications will not be accepted.applicants must complete all required registrations before the application due date. section iii. eligibility information contains information about registration.for assistance with your electronic application or for more information on the electronic submission process, visit how to apply – application guide. if you encounter a system issue beyond your control that threatens your ability to complete the submission process on-time, you must follow the dealing with system issues guidance. for assistance with application submission, contact the application submission contacts in section vii.important reminders:all pd(s)/pi(s) must include their era commons id in the credential field of the senior/key person profile component of the sf424(r&r) application package. failure to register in the commons and to include a valid pd/pi commons id in the credential field will prevent the successful submission of an electronic application to nih. see section iii of this foa for information on registration requirements.the applicant organization must ensure that the duns number it provides on the application is the same number used in the organization’s profile in the era commons and for the system for award management. additional information may be found in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.see more tips for avoiding common errors.upon receipt, applications will be evaluated for completeness and compliance with application instructions by the center for scientific review, nih. applications that are incomplete or non-compliant will not be reviewed.requests of $500,000 or more for direct costs in any year applicants requesting $500,000 or more in direct costs (excluding consortium f&a) in any year of the ug3 must contact a scientific/ research contact at least 6 weeks before submitting the application and follow the policy on the acceptance for review of unsolicited applications that request $500,000 or more in direct costs as described in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.applicants are required to follow the instructions for post-submission materials, as described in the policy. any instructions provided here are in addition to the instructions in the policy.note: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023, the data sharing plan and genomic data sharing plan (gds) as part of the resource sharing plan will not be evaluated at time of review.only the review criteria described below will be considered in the review process. applications submitted to the nih in support of the nih mission are evaluated for scientific and technical merit through the nih peer review system.a proposed clinical trial application may include study design, methods, and intervention that are not by themselves innovative but address important questions or unmet needs. additionally, the results of the clinical trial may indicate that further clinical development of the intervention is unwarranted or lead to new avenues of scientific investigation.reviewers will provide an overall impact score to reflect their assessment of the likelihood for the project to exert a sustained, powerful influence on the research field(s) involved, in consideration of the following review criteria and additional review criteria (as applicable for the project proposed).reviewers will consider each of the review criteria below in the determination of scientific merit, and give a separate score for each. an application does not need to be strong in all categories to be judged likely to have major scientific impact. for example, a project that by its nature is not innovative may be essential to advance a field. significancedoes the project address an important problem or a critical barrier to progress in the field? is the prior research that serves as the key support for the proposed project rigorous? if the aims of the project are achieved, how will scientific knowledge, technical capability, and/or clinical practice be improved? how will successful completion of the aims change the concepts, methods, technologies, treatments, services, or preventative interventions that drive this field?specific to this foa:does the project have a strong design to allow for the validation or rejection of the neural target or device being tested? are there characteristics of the project that make it ready for the proposed phase of testing? does the proposed intervention have a strong, well-supported rationale that is ready for testing?in addition, for applications involving clinical trialsare the scientific rationale and need for a clinical trial to test the proposed hypothesis or intervention well supported by preliminary data, clinical and/or preclinical studies, or information in the literature or knowledge of biological mechanisms? for trials focusing on clinical or public health endpoints, is this clinical trial necessary for testing the safety, efficacy or effectiveness of an intervention that could lead to a change in clinical practice, community behaviors or health care policy? for trials focusing on mechanistic, behavioral, physiological, biochemical, or other biomedical endpoints, is this trial needed to advance scientific understanding? investigator(s)are the pd(s)/pi(s), collaborators, and other researchers well suited to the project? if early stage investigators or those in the early stages of independent careers, do they have appropriate experience and training? if established, have they demonstrated an ongoing record of accomplishments that have advanced their field(s)? if the project is collaborative or multi-pd/pi, do the investigators have complementary and integrated expertise; are their leadership approach, governance and organizational structure appropriate for the project?specific to this foa:is there sufficient evidence that the investigators can work as a team? does the investigative team have sufficient methodological and statistical expertise to evaluate target engagement, brain functional effects and functional outcomes (e.g., association of these different measures, handling repeated measures designs, missing data, effect size)?in addition, for applications involving clinical trialswith regard to the proposed leadership for the project, do the pd/pi(s) and key personnel have the expertise, experience, and ability to organize, manage and implement the proposed clinical trial and meet milestones and timelines? do they have appropriate expertise in study coordination, data management and statistics? for a multicenter trial, is the organizational structure appropriate and does the application identify a core of potential center investigators and staffing for a coordinating center? innovationdoes the application challenge and seek to shift current research or clinical practice paradigms by utilizing novel theoretical concepts, approaches or methodologies, instrumentation, or interventions? are the concepts, approaches or methodologies, instrumentation, or interventions novel to one field of research or novel in a broad sense? is a refinement, improvement, or new application of theoretical concepts, approaches or methodologies, instrumentation, or interventions proposed?in addition, for applications involving clinical trialsdoes the design/research plan include innovative elements, as appropriate, that enhance its sensitivity, potential for information or potential to advance scientific knowledge or clinical practice?are the overall strategy, methodology, and analyses well-reasoned and appropriate to accomplish the specific aims of the project? have the investigators included plans to address weaknesses in the rigor of prior research that serves as the key support for the proposed project? have the investigators presented strategies to ensure a robust and unbiased approach, as appropriate for the work proposed? are potential problems, alternative strategies, and benchmarks for success presented? if the project is in the early stages of development, will the strategy establish feasibility and will particularly risky aspects be managed? have the investigators presented adequate plans to address relevant biological variables, such as sex, for studies in vertebrate animals or human subjects?specific to this foa:is information provided regarding the specific regulatory pathway (e.g., will the project require an ide)? is there a clear and feasible plan to address all regulatory requirements (e.g., is there a plan for a q-submission to discuss the regulatory requirements with the fda and receive their feedback?; if an ide is required, are there specific plans to submit and obtain the fda approval?)are there strong go/no-go milestones that can be achieved in the 2-year period of the ug3 grant? does the ug3 phase provide a compelling design that will move the intervention appropriately forward to the larger uh3 phase? for ug3 studies that are testing target engagement, is the study a rigorous test of target engagement? does the research strategy utilize reliable, objective and valid measures of target engagement to definitively test the intervention's ability to modulate the target?does the uh3 phase provide a more focused study that will move the intervention forward? will sufficient data be collected in the uh3 phase to determine neuronal target validation, based on relationships between target engagement, measures of brain function and symptom or functional effects?in addition, for applications involving clinical trialsdoes the application adequately address the following, if applicablestudy designis the study design justified and appropriate to address primary and secondary outcome variable(s)/endpoints that will be clear, informative and relevant to the hypothesis being tested? is the scientific rationale/premise of the study based on previously well-designed preclinical and/or clinical research? given the methods used to assign participants and deliver interventions, is the study design adequately powered to answer the research question(s), test the proposed hypothesis/hypotheses, and provide interpretable results? is the trial appropriately designed to conduct the research efficiently? are the study populations (size, gender, age, demographic group), proposed intervention arms/dose, and duration of the trial, appropriate and well justified?are potential ethical issues adequately addressed? is the process for obtaining informed consent or assent appropriate? is the eligible population available? are the plans for recruitment outreach, enrollment, retention, handling dropouts, missed visits, and losses to follow-up appropriate to ensure robust data collection? are the planned recruitment timelines feasible and is the plan to monitor accrual adequate? has the need for randomization (or not), masking (if appropriate), controls, and inclusion/exclusion criteria been addressed? are differences addressed, if applicable, in the intervention effect due to sex/gender and race/ethnicity?are the plans to standardize, assure quality of, and monitor adherence to, the trial protocol and data collection or distribution guidelines appropriate? is there a plan to obtain required study agent(s)? does the application propose to use existing available resources, as applicable?data management and statistical analysisare planned analyses and statistical approach appropriate for the proposed study design and methods used to assign participants and deliver interventions? are the procedures for data management and quality control of data adequate at clinical site(s) or at center laboratories, as applicable? have the methods for standardization of procedures for data management to assess the effect of the intervention and quality control been addressed? is there a plan to complete data analysis within the proposed period of the award?if the project involves human subjects and/or nih-defined clinical research, are the plans to address 1) the protection of human subjects from research risks, and 2) inclusion (or exclusion) of individuals on the basis of sex/gender, race, and ethnicity, as well as the inclusion or exclusion of individuals of all ages (including children and older adults), justified in terms of the scientific goals and research strategy proposed? environmentwill the scientific environment in which the work will be done contribute to the probability of success? are the institutional support, equipment and other physical resources available to the investigators adequate for the project proposed? will the project benefit from unique features of the scientific environment, subject populations, or collaborative arrangements?specific to this foa:does the environment support timely subject recruitment and completion of both the ug3 and uh3 phases?in addition, for applications involving clinical trialsif proposed, are the administrative, data coordinating, enrollment and laboratory/testing centers, appropriate for the trial proposed?does the application adequately address the capability and ability to conduct the trial at the proposed site(s) or centers? are the plans to add or drop enrollment centers, as needed, appropriate?if international site(s) is/are proposed, does the application adequately address the complexity of executing the clinical trial?if multi-sites/centers, is there evidence of the ability of the individual site or center to: (1) enroll the proposed numbers; (2) adhere to the protocol; (3) collect and transmit data in an accurate and timely fashion; and, (4) operate within the proposed organizational structure?as applicable for the project proposed, reviewers will evaluate the following additional items while determining scientific and technical merit, and in providing an overall impact score, but will not give separate scores for these items. study timelinespecific to applications proposing clinical trialsis the study timeline described in detail, taking into account start-up activities, the anticipated rate of enrollment, and planned follow-up assessment? is the projected timeline feasible and well justified? does the project incorporate efficiencies and utilize existing resources (e.g., ctsas, practice-based research networks, electronic medical records, administrative database, or patient registries) to increase the efficiency of participant enrollment and data collection, as appropriate?are potential challenges and corresponding solutions discussed (e.g., strategies that can be implemented in the event of enrollment shortfalls)? protections for human subjectsfor research that involves human subjects but does not involve one of the categories of research that are exempt under 45 cfr part 46, the committee will evaluate the justification for involvement of human subjects and the proposed protections from research risk relating to their participation according to the following five review criteria: 1) risk to subjects, 2) adequacy of protection against risks, 3) potential benefits to the subjects and others, 4) importance of the knowledge to be gained, and 5) data and safety monitoring for clinical trials.for research that involves human subjects and meets the criteria for one or more of the categories of research that are exempt under 45 cfr part 46, the committee will evaluate: 1) the justification for the exemption, 2) human subjects involvement and characteristics, and 3) sources of materials. for additional information on review of the human subjects section, please refer to the guidelines for the review of human subjects. inclusion of women, minorities, and individuals across the lifespanwhen the proposed project involves human subjects and/or nih-defined clinical research, the committee will evaluate the proposed plans for the inclusion (or exclusion) of individuals on the basis of sex/gender, race, and ethnicity, as well as the inclusion (or exclusion) of individuals of all ages (including children and older adults) to determine if it is justified in terms of the scientific goals and research strategy proposed. for additional information on review of the inclusion section, please refer to the guidelines for the review of inclusion in clinical research. vertebrate animalsthe committee will evaluate the involvement of live vertebrate animals as part of the scientific assessment according to the following criteria: (1) description of proposed procedures involving animals, including species, strains, ages, sex, and total number to be used; (2) justifications for the use of animals versus alternative models and for the appropriateness of the species proposed; (3) interventions to minimize discomfort, distress, pain and injury; and (4) justification for euthanasia method if not consistent with the avma guidelines for the euthanasia of animals. reviewers will assess the use of chimpanzees as they would any other application proposing the use of vertebrate animals. for additional information on review of the vertebrate animals section, please refer to the worksheet for review of the vertebrate animal section. biohazardsreviewers will assess whether materials or procedures proposed are potentially hazardous to research personnel and/or the environment, and if needed, determine whether adequate protection is proposed. resubmissionsfor resubmissions, the committee will evaluate the application as now presented, taking into consideration the responses to comments from the previous scientific review group and changes made to the project. renewalsnot applicable revisionsfor revisions, the committee will consider the appropriateness of the proposed expansion of the scope of the project. if the revision application relates to a specific line of investigation presented in the original application that was not recommended for approval by the committee, then the committee will consider whether the responses to comments from the previous scientific review group are adequate and whether substantial changes are clearly evident.note: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023, the data sharing plan and genomic data sharing plan (gds) as part of the resource sharing plan will not be evaluated at time of review.as applicable for the project proposed, reviewers will consider each of the following items, but will not give scores for these items, and should not consider them in providing an overall impact score. applications from foreign organizationsreviewers will assess whether the project presents special opportunities for furthering research programs through the use of unusual talent, resources, populations, or environmental conditions that exist in other countries and either are not readily available in the united states or augment existing u.s. resources. select agent researchreviewers will assess the information provided in this section of the application, including 1) the select agent(s) to be used in the proposed research, 2) the registration status of all entities where select agent(s) will be used, 3) the procedures that will be used to monitor possession use and transfer of select agent(s), and 4) plans for appropriate biosafety, biocontainment, and security of the select agent(s). resource sharing plansreviewers will comment on whether the following resource sharing plans, or the rationale for not sharing the following types of resources, are reasonable: (1) data sharing plan; (2) sharing model organisms; and (3) genomic data sharing plan (gds). authentication of key biological and/or chemical resources:for projects involving key biological and/or chemical resources, reviewers will comment on the brief plans proposed for identifying and ensuring the validity of those resources. budget and period of supportreviewers will consider whether the budget and the requested period of support are fully justified and reasonable in relation to the proposed research.applications will be evaluated for scientific and technical merit by (an) appropriate scientific review group(s) convened by nida in accordance with nih peer review policy and procedures, using the stated review criteria. assignment to a scientific review group will be shown in the era commons.as part of the scientific peer review, all applications will receive a written critique.applications may undergo a selection process in which only those applications deemed to have the highest scientific and technical merit (generally the top half of applications under review) will be discussed and assigned an overall impact score.information regarding the disposition of applications is available in the nih grants policy statement.a formal notification in the form of a notice of award (noa) will be provided to the applicant organization for successful applications. the noa signed by the grants management officer is the authorizing document and will be sent via email to the grantee’s business official.awardees must comply with any funding restrictions described in section iv.5. funding restrictions. selection of an application for award is not an authorization to begin performance. any costs incurred before receipt of the noa are at the recipient's risk. these costs may be reimbursed only to the extent considered allowable pre-award costs.any application awarded in response to this foa will be subject to terms and conditions found on the award conditions and information for nih grants website. this includes any recent legislation and policy applicable to awards that is highlighted on this website.individual awards are based on the application submitted to, and as approved by, the nih and are subject to the ic-specific terms and conditions identified in the noa.clinicaltrials.gov: if an award provides for one or more clinical trials. by law (title viii, section 801 of public law 110-85), the "responsible party" must register and submit results information for certain “applicable clinical trials” on the clinicaltrials.gov protocol registration and results system information website (https://register.clinicaltrials.gov). nih expects registration and results reporting of all trials whether required under the law or not. for more information, see https://grants.nih.gov/policy/clinical-trials/reporting/index.htminstitutional review board or independent ethics committee approval: grantee institutions must ensure that all protocols are reviewed by their irb or iec. to help ensure the safety of participants enrolled in nih-funded studies, the awardee must provide nih copies of documents related to all major changes in the status of ongoing protocols. data and safetymonitoring requirements: the nih policy for data and safety monitoring requires oversight and monitoring of all nih-conducted or -supported human biomedical and behavioral intervention studies (clinical trials) to ensure the safety of participants and the validity and integrity of the data. further information concerning these requirements is found at http://grants.nih.gov/grants/policy/hs/data_safety.htm and in the application instructions (sf424 (r&r) and phs 398).investigational new drug or investigational device exemption requirements: consistent with federal regulations, clinical research projects involving the use of investigational therapeutics, vaccines, or other medical interventions (including licensed products and devices for a purpose other than that for which they were licensed) in humans under a research protocol must be performed under a food and drug administration (fda) investigational new drug (ind) or investigational device exemption (ide).all nih grant and cooperative agreement awards include the nih grants policy statement as part of the noa. for these terms of award, see the nih grants policy statement part ii: terms and conditions of nih grant awards, subpart a: general and part ii: terms and conditions of nih grant awards, subpart b: terms and conditions for specific types of grants, grantees, and activities. more information is provided at award conditions and information for nih grants.recipients of federal financial assistance (ffa) from hhs must administer their programs in compliance with federal civil rights laws that prohibit discrimination on the basis of race, color, national origin, disability, age and, in some circumstances, religion, conscience, and sex. this includes ensuring programs are accessible to persons with limited english proficiency. the hhs office for civil rights provides guidance on complying with civil rights laws enforced by hhs. please see https://www.hhs.gov/civil-rights/for-providers/provider-obligations/index.html and http://www.hhs.gov/ocr/civilrights/understanding/section1557/index.html.hhs recognizes that research projects are often limited in scope for many reasons that are nondiscriminatory, such as the principal investigator’s scientific interest, funding limitations, recruitment requirements, and other considerations. thus, criteria in research protocols that target or exclude certain populations are warranted where nondiscriminatory justifications establish that such criteria are appropriate with respect to the health or safety of the subjects, the scientific study design, or the purpose of the research. for additional guidance regarding how the provisions apply to nih grant programs, please contact the scientific/research contact that is identified in section vii under agency contacts of this foa.please contact the hhs office for civil rights for more information about obligations and prohibitions under federal civil rights laws at https://www.hhs.gov/ocr/about-us/contact-us/index.html or call 1-800-368-1019 or tdd 1-800-537-7697.in accordance with the statutory provisions contained in section 872 of the duncan hunter national defense authorization act of fiscal year 2009 (public law 110-417), nih awards will be subject to the federal awardee performance and integrity information system (fapiis) requirements. fapiis requires federal award making officials to review and consider information about an applicant in the designated integrity and performance system (currently fapiis) prior to making an award. an applicant, at its option, may review information in the designated integrity and performance systems accessible through fapiis and comment on any information about itself that a federal agency previously entered and is currently in fapiis. the federal awarding agency will consider any comments by the applicant, in addition to other information in fapiis, in making a judgement about the applicant’s integrity, business ethics, and record of performance under federal awards when completing the review of risk posed by applicants as described in 45 cfr part 75.205 “federal awarding agency review of risk posed by applicants.” this provision will apply to all nih grants and cooperative agreements except fellowships.the following special terms of award are in addition to an not in lieu of otherwise applicable omb administrative guidelines, hhs grant administration regulations at 45 cfr parts 75, and other hhs, phs and nih grant administration policies and human services (dhhs) grant administration.the administrative and funding instrument used for this program will be the cooperative agreement, an "assistance" mechanism (rather than an "acquisition" mechanism), in which substantial nih programmatic involvement with the awardee is anticipated during the performance of the activities. under the cooperative agreement, the nih purpose is to support and stimulate the recipients' activities by involvement in and otherwise working jointly with the award recipients in a partnership role; it is not to assume direction, prime responsibility, or a dominant role in the activities. consistent with this concept, the dominant role and prime responsibility resides with the awardees for the project as a whole, although specific tasks and activities may be shared among the awardees and the nih as defined below.recipient rights and responsibilitiesall aspects of their study, including any modification of study design, conduct of the study, quality control, data analysis and interpretation, preparation of publications, dissemination of data, tools, and technologies, and collaboration with other investigators.the awardee agrees to accept close coordination, cooperation, and participation of nih staff in those aspects of scientific and technical management of the study including those outlined under "nih responsibilities".upon implementation of the protocol, each field center, whether a single institution or a consortium of institutions, will follow the procedures required by the protocol regarding study conduct and monitoring, patient management, and data collection.support or other involvement of industry or any other third party in the study--e.g., participation by the third party; involvement of project resources or citing the name of the project or the nih support; or special access to project results, data, findings, or resources--may be advantageous and appropriate. however, except for licensing of patents or copyrights, support or involvement of any third party will occur with the concurrence by nih program officer to ensure objectivity of research.award recipients will own the rights in any tangible work products created under the terms of the cooperative agreement. work products may include such things as research reports, papers, research, findings, training curricula, data sets, books, patient tools, and other materials. all such products shall be made accessible to the public and are subject to government rights of access, as appropriate, in accordance with nih's legal directives and authorities.nida staff responsibilitiesthe nih project scientist will have access to the data and work with the pd(s)/pi(s) to ensure the objectives of the program are being met. the primary responsibility for the program resides with the awardee, although specific tasks and activities will be shared among the awardee and the nih project scientist.nih support of this study is contingent upon adequate participant recruitment based on the recipient's milestone accrual plan submitted at the time of funding.the recipient is expected to demonstrate best effort compliance. failure to achieve minimally acceptable milestone recruitment levels may result in the withholding future support and or negotiating an orderly close-out of this study.nih staff will act as a resource and facilitator for activities of the awardee with non-hcs researchers and other nih, dhhs, or other federally-sponsored research networks that may be relevant to this effort.serve as a resource to provide scientific/programmatic support during the accomplishment of the clinical trial by participating in the design of the activities, advising in the selection of sources or resources, advising in management and technical performance, or participating in the preparation of publications.participate in the monitoring of issues relating to recruitment, retention and follow-up of study participants, and monitoring of data integrity and quality control through consideration of the annual reports, site visits, patient logs, etc. this review may include, but is not limited to, compliance with the study protocol, meeting patient enrollment targets, adherence to uniform data collection procedures, and the timeliness and quality of data reporting as needed to the administration and evaluation core.assist in the development and modification of study protocols.nih staff will interact with the pd(s)/pi(s) on a regular basis to monitor progress. monitoring may include: regular communication with the pd(s)/pi(s) and his staff, periodic site visits for discussion with the awardees' research team, observation of field data collection and management techniques, fiscal reviews, and other relevant stewardship matters.additionally, an agency program official or ic program director will be responsible for the normal scientific and programmatic stewardship of the award and will be named in the award notice.collaborative responsibilitiesthe pd(s)/pi(s) provide, in concert with the nih staff, support necessary to ensure that sites and investigators, and nih and other research partners fully comply with federal regulatory requirements, including but not limited to those relating to human subjects protections, informed consent, and reporting of adverse events.awardees and nih will jointly develop appropriate confidentiality procedures for data collection, processing, storage and analysis to ensure the confidentiality of data on individual health care provider organization patients, health care providers and other institutions.all awardees and nih will cooperate to ensure the timely and broad dissemination of lessons learned, to inform researchers and health care systems engaged in research in health care settings.arbitrationany disagreements that may arise in scientific or programmatic matters (within the scope of the award) between award recipients and the nih may be brought to arbitration. an arbitration panel of three members will be convened composed of a designee of the awardee, one nih designee, and a third designee with expertise in the relevant area who will be chosen by mutual agreement of the other two members.data management and sharingnote: the nih policy for data management and sharing is effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023.consistent with the nih policy for data management and sharing, when data management and sharing is applicable to the award, recipients will be required to adhere to the data management and sharing requirements as outlined in the nih grants policy statement. upon the approval of a data management and sharing plan, it is required for recipients to implement the plan as described.a final rppr, invention statement, and the expenditure data portion of the federal financial report are required for closeout of an award, as described in the nih grants policy statement.the federal funding accountability and transparency act of 2006 (transparency act), includes a requirement for awardees of federal grants to report information about first-tier subawards and executive compensation under federal assistance awards issued in fy2011 or later. all awardees of applicable nih grants and cooperative agreements are required to report to the federal subaward reporting system (fsrs) available at www.fsrs.gov on all subawards over $25,000. see the nih grants policy statement for additional information on this reporting requirement.in accordance with the regulatory requirements provided at 45 cfr 75.113 and appendix xii to 45 cfr part 75, recipients that have currently active federal grants, cooperative agreements, and procurement contracts from all federal awarding agencies with a cumulative total value greater than $10,000,000 for any period of time during the period of performance of a federal award, must report and maintain the currency of information reported in the system for award management (sam) about civil, criminal, and administrative proceedings in connection with the award or performance of a federal award that reached final disposition within the most recent five-year period. the recipient must also make semiannual disclosures regarding such proceedings. proceedings information will be made publicly available in the designated integrity and performance system (currently fapiis). this is a statutory requirement under section 872 of public law 110-417, as amended (41 u.s.c. 2313). as required by section 3010 of public law 111-212, all information posted in the designated integrity and performance system on or after april 15, 2011, except past performance reviews required for federal procurement contracts, will be publicly available. full reporting requirements and procedures are found in appendix xii to 45 cfr part 75 – award term and conditions for recipient integrity and performance matters.we encourage inquiries concerning this funding opportunity and welcome the opportunity to answer questions from potential applicants.era service desk (questions regarding assist, era commons, application errors and warnings, documenting system problems that threaten submission by the due date, and post-submission issues)finding help online: http://grants.nih.gov/support/ (preferred method of contact) telephone: 301-402-7469 or 866-504-9552 (toll free)general grants information (questions regarding application instructions, application processes, and nih grant resources) email: grantsinfo@nih.gov (preferred method of contact) telephone: 301-637-3015grants.gov customer support (questions regarding grants.gov registration and workspace) contact center telephone: 800-518-4726 email: support@grants.govkevin walton, ph.d. national institute on drug abuse (nida) telephone: 301-827-5980 email: kevin.walton@nih.govwill m. aklin, ph.d. national institute on drug abuse (nida) telephone: 301-827-5909 email: aklinwm@nida.nih.govdharmendar rathore, phd national institute on drug abuse (nida) telephone: 301-402-6965 email: dharmendar.rathore@nih.govpamela fleming national institute on drug abuse (nida) telephone: 301 480 1159 email: pfleming@mail.nih.govrecently issued trans-nih policy notices may affect your application submission. a full list of policy notices published by nih is provided in the nih guide for grants and contracts. all awards are subject to the terms and conditions, cost principles, and other considerations described in the nih grants policy statement.awards are made under the authorization of sections 301 and 405 of the public health service act as amended (42 usc 241 and 284) and under federal regulations 42 cfr part 52 and 45 cfr part 75. weekly toc for this announcement nih funding opportunities and noticesnote: for help accessing pdf, rtf, ms word, excel, powerpoint, audio or video files, see help downloading files.