Neuromodulation/Neurostimulation Device Development for Mental Health Applications (R01 Clinical Trial Not Allowed)
https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/pa-files/PAR-22-039.html
national institutes of health (nih)national institute of mental health (nimh)r01 research project grantsee notices of special interest associated with this funding opportunitysee section iii. 3. additional information on eligibility.the purpose of this funding opportunity announcement (foa) is to encourage applications seeking to develop the next generation of brain stimulation devices for treating mental health disorders. applications are encouraged that will either 1) develop novel brain stimulation devices or 2) significantly enhance, by means of hardware/software improvements, the effectiveness of brain stimulation devices that are currently u.s. food and drug administration (fda)-approved or cleared. novel devices should move beyond existing electrical/magnetic stimulation and develop new stimulation techniques capable of increased spatiotemporal precision as well as multi-focal, closed-loop approaches. applications seeking to develop new capabilities should focus on significant enhancement of the spatial resolution, depth of delivery, and/or precision of the device. incremental changes to existing devices (e.g., software updates) are not within the scope of this announcement. applications should be submitted by multi-disciplinary teams with diverse expertise including systems neuroscience, engineering, clinical, and regulatory affairs. applications submitting in response to this foa should promote the development or significant enhancement of novel tools (hardware/software) for brain stimulation in humans.although the application should focus on the engineering development and bench top testing of the tool, animal and limited human testing necessary to demonstrate initial proof of concept is allowable.applications to this foa are not expected to be hypothesis-driven, but should propose design-directed, developmental, or discovery-driven technology research using integrative approaches.not applicableall applications are due by 5:00 pm local time of applicant organization. all types of non-aids applications allowed for this funding opportunity announcement are due on the listed date(s).applicants are encouraged to apply early to allow adequate time to make any corrections to errors found in the application during the submission process by the due date.not applicableit is critical that applicants follow the instructions in the research (r) instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide,except where instructed to do otherwise (in this foa or in a notice from nih guide for grants and contracts ).conformance to all requirements (both in the application guide and the foa) is required and strictly enforced. applicants must read and follow all application instructions in the application guide as well as any program-specific instructions noted in section iv. when the program-specific instructions deviate from those in the application guide, follow the program-specific instructions.applications that do not comply with these instructions may be delayed or not accepted for review.there are several options available to submit your application through grants.gov to nih and department of health and human services partners. you must use one of these submission options to access the application forms for this opportunity.backgroundthe use of brain stimulation devices provides a unique opportunity to develop novel treatments for mental health disorders. brain stimulation devices provide both the most efficacious (electroconvulsive therapy, ect) and one of the most recently-cleared (transcranial magnetic stimulation, tms) treatments for depression. however, while these successes demonstrate the potential to improve clinical care, limitations of the few existing fda approved/cleared devices (e.g., cognitive side effects of ect, variability in response to tms) hamper widespread clinical use. in order to develop efficacious treatments that will be widely utilized across a variety of disorders, the development of innovative brain stimulation devices and novel approaches with existing devices is urgently needednew devices, developed with a focus on aspects unique to mental health indications, are needed to fully explore the potential of brain stimulation treatments. the majority of clinical studies using brain stimulation therapies for mental health disorders utilize existing devices developed for other neurological conditions. deep brain stimulation (dbs) and vagal nerve stimulation (vns) electrodes were developed for the treatment of parkinson’s disease and epilepsy. they have subsequently been studied, with minimal to no modification, for use in mental health disorders with mixed results. new devices, whose development is informed by basic and clinical science findings in mental health research, may provide improved treatments for patients. for example, while current dbs electrodes are limited to one or two stimulation sites, neuroimaging studies have demonstrated the distributed, network-based nature of mental health disorders. therefore, distributed, multi-focal electrode arrays may be necessary to modulate networks back into a desired state. new forms of energy (e.g., ultrasound) also have the potential to be incorporated into the next generation of brain stimulation devices.in addition to the development of new devices, significantly enhancing the capabilities of existing devices presents an opportunity to improve clinical care. while drug treatments become static (in terms of chemical composition) once developed, brain stimulation devices are amenable to hardware/software changes that can readily translate to improved patient care. examples of these approaches include development of real time electric field (e-field) modeling software and augmented reality delivery systems to enable practitioners to interactively target regions of interest with tms. the ability to close the loop with a brain stimulation device and neuroimaging/recordings could also result in improved clinical outcomes.improved devices that focus on developing novel approaches to delivery of previously demonstrated effective treatments are also of interest. although ect provides the best remission rates for depression, the widespread generalized seizure induced by the device produces cognitive side effects that limit its use. the development of novel devices that deliver more focused stimulation resulting in a smaller, controllable seizure, may produce high levels of response while minimizing side effects. additionally, approaches that improve the focality, depth, or closed-loop delivery of tms could improve response rates.research objectivesthis funding opportunity announcement (foa) encourages the development of novel brain stimulation devices and accompanying software/hardware additions that enable improved delivery of brain stimulation treatments for mental health indications. applications should be submitted by multi-disciplinary teams with expertise in systems neuroscience, engineering, clinical, and regulatory affairs and promote either the development of novel tools (hardware/software) or significant enhancement of existing tools (hardware/software). applications should be engineering/pre-clinical based and focus on hardware and software development and validation. although the application should focus on the engineering development of the tool, animal and limited, non-clinical trial, human testing to demonstrate initial proof of concept is allowable. applications that seek to study specific scientific or clinical hypotheses that utilize devices are outside the scope of this foa.applications may propose to develop novel invasive or non-invasive brain stimulation devices. new devices should be designed to significantly advance the field and go beyond current stimulation and low-channel count recording/stimulating capabilities. existing magnetic and electrical stimulation methods have limited spatial and temporal precision. to overcome these obstacles and move beyond incremental advances, collaborations between physicists, engineers, neuroscientists, and clinicians are encouraged. the perspective and expertise of such integrative teams could enable the development and testing of novel approaches that leverage other types of energy or stimulation methods in a way that can lead to novel tools for scientific discovery and for therapeutic brain stimulation. applications that propose to improve spatiotemporal precision, stimulate at depth, enable multi-focal recording/stimulation, and utilize novel stimulation paradigms are encouraged. appropriate modeling and preliminary data should be presented to demonstrate the feasibility of the stated approach. while the application may be in the initial stages of device development and may therefore still be in the animal testing phase, the proposed tools and methods must be designed for use in humans. animal testing should focus on questions of safety. industry partnership is encouraged and should be detailed in the application. the regulatory process for the new technology should be described in the application, when applicable.applications may also propose to develop additional capabilities for existing fda-approved or cleared brain stimulation devices and related technologies. however, proposed improvements to existing devices and related technology should be significant and innovative, rather than incremental. appropriate improvements may include: 1) incorporating advanced approaches to stimulation delivery, such as real-time realistic head/electric field modeling that incorporates patient-specific tractography or cellular-level resolution; 2) synchronizing behavioral recordings with brain recordings in novel ways; or 3) developing novel delivery methods, such as augmented and virtual-reality approaches. for existing devices, approaches that seek to improve the focality and depth of stimulation, controllability of the delivered dose, sham control delivery, or recording capabilities are encouraged. software approaches that seek to develop novel approaches (e.g., machine learning) to biomarker-driven targeted delivery of stimulation are also encouraged.topics of interest for this foa include, but are not limited to:topics of lower program priority include:innovation in this biomedical engineering foa has a broad definition that includes development of new methods, ideas, or tools, integration of existing components into new combinations that deliver greater capabilities, new efficiencies, and/or greater effects. applications to this foa are not expected to be hypothesis-driven, but should propose design-directed, developmental, or discovery-driven technology research using integrative approaches. overall impact of these advances may include reducing disparities in care, promoting wellness and independent living, increasing access to and utility of technologies to improve quality of life, reducing cost and complexity of procedures, and increasing throughput, sensitivity, and specificity of diagnostic tests.applications seeking to explore scientific questions (in humans or animals) using novel brain stimulation devices should apply to the nih parent r01 (pa-20-185) and nih parent clinical trial required r21 (pa-20-194), or nimh r21 (pa-21-235) funding opportunity announcements. those seeking to assess devices as treatments in a clinical population should refer to the nimh policy for submission of applications containing clinical trials (not-mh-14-007). nimh only accepts clinical trial applications proposing mechanistic studies for clinical trial parent r01 and r21 announcements. see not-mh-19-006 for information on nimh requirements.all applicants are strongly encouraged to contact the designated scientific/research contacts at nimh prior to submission. applicants who seek to establish proof-of-concept should respond to the companion r21 foa, par-22-038. small businesses should consider applying to the sbir/sttr programs to support the technology development.see section viii. other information for award authorities and regulations.grant: a support mechanism providing money, property, or both to an eligible entity to carry out an approved project or activity.renewal of par-18-942 and par-22-039 resubmission of par-18-942 and par-22-039 revision of par-18-942 and par-22-039renewal of par-18-942 and par-22-039resubmission of par-18-942 and par-22-039revision of par-18-942 and par-22-039the oer glossary and the sf424 (r&r) application guide provide details on these application types. only those application types listed here are allowed for this foa.the oer glossary and the sf424 (r&r) application guide provide details on these application types. only those application types listed here are allowed for this foa.not allowed: only accepting applications that do not propose clinical trials.need help determining whether you are doing a clinical trial?need help determining whether you are doing a clinical trial?the number of awards is contingent upon nih appropriations and the submission of a sufficient number of meritorious applications.application budgets are not limited but need to reflect the actual needs of the proposed project.the scope of the proposed project should determine the project period. the maximum project period is 5 years.nih grants policies as described in the nih grants policy statement will apply to the applications submitted and awards made from this foa.higher education institutionsthe following types of higher education institutions are always encouraged to apply for nih support as public or private institutions of higher education:nonprofits other than institutions of higher educationfor-profit organizationslocal governmentsfederal governmentothernon-domestic (non-u.s.) entities (foreign institutions) are eligible to apply.non-domestic (non-u.s.) components of u.s. organizations are eligible to apply.foreign components, as defined in the nih grants policy statement, are allowed.applicant organizationsapplicant organizations must complete and maintain the following registrations as described in the sf 424 (r&r) application guide to be eligible to apply for or receive an award. all registrations must be completed prior to the application being submitted. registration can take 6 weeks or more, so applicants should begin the registration process as soon as possible. the nih policy on late submission of grant applications states that failure to complete registrations in advance of a due date is not a valid reason for a late submission.program directors/principal investigators (pd(s)/pi(s))all pd(s)/pi(s) must have an era commons account. pd(s)/pi(s) should work with their organizational officials to either create a new account or to affiliate their existing account with the applicant organization in era commons. if the pd/pi is also the organizational signing official, they must have two distinct era commons accounts, one for each role. obtaining an era commons account can take up to 2 weeks.any individual(s) with the skills, knowledge, and resources necessary to carry out the proposed research as the program director(s)/principal investigator(s) (pd(s)/pi(s)) is invited to work with his/her organization to develop an application for support. individuals from underrepresented racial and ethnic groups as well as individuals with disabilities are always encouraged to apply for nih support.for institutions/organizations proposing multiple pds/pis, visit the multiple program director/principal investigator policy and submission details in the senior/key person profile (expanded) component of the sf424 (r&r) application guide.due to the transdisciplinary nature of the projects and the focus on collaboration and expertise sharing, this foa requires the applicants to comprise a transdisciplinary team of investigators with expertise from fields such as engineering, device development, regulatory, physical, mathematical, computational sciences, as well as neuroscience, neuropsychiatry, and other areas of the biological sciences.this foa does not require cost sharing as defined in the nih grants policy statement.number of applicationsapplicant organizations may submit more than one application, provided that each application is scientifically distinct.the nih will not accept duplicate or highly overlapping applications under review at the same time, per 2.3.7.4 submission of resubmission application. this means that the nih will not accept:the application forms package specific to this opportunity must be accessed through assist, grants.gov workspace or an institutional system-to-system solution. links to apply using assist or grants.gov workspace are available in part 1 of this foa. see your administrative office for instructions if you plan to use an institutional system-to-system solution.all page limitations described in the sf424 application guide and the table of page limits must be followed.note: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023, the data management and sharing (dms) plan will be attached in the other plan(s) attachment in forms-h and subsequent application forms packages. for due dates on or before january 24, 2023, the data sharing plan and genomic data sharing plan gds) will continue to be attached in the resource sharing plan attachment in forms-g application forms packages.the following section supplements the instructions found in the sf424 (r&r) application guide and should be used for preparing an application to this foa.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.other attachments:intellectual property (ip) strategy:applications are expected to include an ip strategy, and the page limit must be no more than three pages. applications that exceed this limit will not be reviewed. this attachment should be entitled "ip strategy.pdf". applicants are encouraged to prepare this section of the application in consultation with their institution's technology transfer officials, if applicable.a goal of this program initiative is to advance research towards the development of products that will benefit the public. accordingly, applicants should describe the ip landscape surrounding their therapeutic device. this should include any known constraints that could impede the development of their therapeutic device or diagnostic (e.g., certain restrictions under transfer or sharing agreements, applicants' previous or present ip filings and publications, similar technologies that are under patent and/or on the market, etc.) and how these issues could be addressed as appropriate and consistent with achieving the goals of the program. if the applicant proposes using a device or technology whose ip is not owned by the applicant's institution, either an investigational therapeutic, fda-approved therapeutic, or other licensed product, the applicant should address any questions that may constrain or impede its ability to operate and move the technology forward consistent with achieving the goals of the program. if patents pertinent to the therapeutic device being developed under this application have been filed, the applicants should indicate the details of filing dates, what types of patents are filed, application status, and associated united states patent office (uspto) links, if applicable.applicants should also discuss future ip filing plans. for a multiple-pd/pi, multiple-institution application, applicants should describe how ip will be shared or otherwise managed, and the infrastructure of each institution for bringing the technologies to practical application and for coordinating these efforts (e.g., licensing, managing ip) among the institutions.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.r&r or modular budgetall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.other plan(s):note: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023, the data management and sharing plan will be attached in the other plan(s) attachment in forms-h and subsequent application forms packages. for due dates on or before january 24, 2023, the data sharing plan and genomic data sharing plan gds) will continue to be attached in the resource sharing plan attachment in forms-g application forms packages.all applicants planning research (funded or conducted in whole or in part by nih) that results in the generation of scientific data are required to comply with the instructions for the data management and sharing plan. all applications, regardless of the amount of direct costs requested for any one year, must address a data management and sharing plan.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed, with the following additional instructions:the research strategy should clearly address the purpose of this foa and indicate:any animal or non-clincial trial human testing should be justified in the context of necessity for device development. any proposed work in animals must include a description of how the methods would be scaled up for use in humans. in recognition of the fact that these methods might be in early stages of development, work with human volunteers can, but does not need to, be included.applications should also include the following sections in the research strategy:current state-of-the-art:applications should define the current state of technology as a benchmark against which their proposed new technology or improvements will be measured. given that projects are likely to be early-stage and high-risk in nature, this should include the specific proof-of-concept test(s) that will indicate whether/how a proposed tool actually "works", along with alternative strategies should that effort fail to perform as expected. tests should include a comparison against existing benchmark technologies; if a tool is truly first-in-class, comparisons may be done against a nearest neighbor technology. investigators should briefly note how results will be used to inform future phases of tool development, such as testing in other model systems or in human brain.industry partners:applications should describe any relationship with industry/commercial partners. this should include details on what, if any material, partners are providing. if a memorandum of understanding (mou), confidential disclosure agreement (cda), or collaborative research agreement (cra) has been signed by both parties, this should be described by the applicant.translational plan:applications should describe the potential translational pathway for their devices. this should include a description of the regulatory and reimbursement pathway for their device or specific type of technology. future commercialization, implementation, and dissemination plans should be discussed.project milestones and timeline:a timeline and milestones should be included that propose indicators of progress at critical junctures. these should be tailored to the unique scope of each project and written concretely enough to evaluate what exactly will have been achieved (e.g., crucial steps in tool making) during the course of the project. quantitative benchmarks for success should be included.letters of support:a letter of support from any industry partners should be included.resource sharing plan: individuals are required to comply with the instructions for the resource sharing plans as provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.all applications, regardless of the amount of direct costs requested for any one year, should address a data sharing plan. there is no prescribed single license for the distribution of standards produced through grants responding to this announcement. however, the data sharing plan is expected to discuss: (1) how the standard will be made widely available; (2) transferability, i.e., ability of another individual or team to continue development as appropriate; (3) terms of availability that will enable researchers to enhance the standard and share those enhancements with colleagues.to advance the goal of advancing research through widespread data sharing among researchers, investigators funded under this foa are expected to share those data via the national data archive (nda; see not-mh-19-033). established by the nih, nda is a secure informatics platform for scientific collaboration and data-sharing that enables the effective communication of detailed research data, tools, and supporting documentation. nda links data across research projects through its global unique identifier (guid) and data dictionary technology. investigators funded under this foa are expected to use these technologies to submit data to nda.to accomplish this objective, it will be important to formulate a) an enrollment strategy that will obtain the information necessary to generate a guid for each participant, and b) a budget strategy that will cover the costs of data submission. the nda web site provides two tools to help investigators develop appropriate strategies: 1) the nda data submission cost model which offers a customizable excel worksheet that includes tasks and hours for the program director/principal investigator and data manager to budget for data sharing; and 2) plain language text to be considered in your informed consent available from the nda's data contribution page. investigators are expected to certify the quality of all data generated by grants funded under this foa prior to submission to nda and review their data for accuracy after submission. submission of descriptive/raw data is expected semi-annually (every january 15 and july 15); submission of all other data is expected at the time of publication, or prior to the end of the grant, whichever occurs first (see nda sharing regimen for more information); investigators are expected to share results, positive and negative, specific to the cohorts and outcome measures studied. the nda data sharing plan is available for review on the nda website. nda staff will work with investigators to help them submit data types not yet defined in the nda data dictionary.when involving human subjects research, clinical research, and/or nih-defined clinical trials (and when applicable, clinical trials research experience) follow all instructions for the phs human subjects and clinical trials information form in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, with the following additional instructions:if you answered “yes” to the question “are human subjects involved?” on the r&r other project information form, you must include at least one human subjects study record using the study record: phs human subjects and clinical trials information form or delayed onset study record.study record: phs human subjects and clinical trials informationall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.delayed onset studynote: delayed onset does not apply to a study that can be described but will not start immediately (i.e., delayed start).all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.foreign (non-u.s.) institutions must follow policies described in the nih grants policy statement, and procedures for foreign institutions described throughout the sf424 (r&r) application guide.see part 1. section iii.1 for information regarding the requirement for obtaining a unique entity identifier and for completing and maintaining active registrations in system for award management (sam), nato commercial and government entity (ncage) code (if applicable), era commons, and grants.govpart i. overview information contains information about key dates and times. applicants are encouraged to submit applications before the due date to ensure they have time to make any application corrections that might be necessary for successful submission. when a submission date falls on a weekend or federal holiday, the application deadline is automatically extended to the next business day.organizations must submit applications to grants.gov (the online portal to find and apply for grants across all federal agencies). applicants must then complete the submission process by tracking the status of the application in the era commons, nih’s electronic system for grants administration. nih and grants.gov systems check the application against many of the application instructions upon submission. errors must be corrected and a changed/corrected application must be submitted to grants.gov on or before the application due date and time. if a changed/corrected application is submitted after the deadline, the application will be considered late. applications that miss the due date and time are subjected to the nih policy on late application submission.applicants are responsible for viewing their application before the due date in the era commons to ensure accurate and successful submission.information on the submission process and a definition of on-time submission are provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.this initiative is not subject to intergovernmental review.all nih awards are subject to the terms and conditions, cost principles, and other considerations described in the nih grants policy statement.pre-award costs are allowable only as described in the nih grants policy statement.applications must be submitted electronically following the instructions described in the sf424 (r&r) application guide. paper applications will not be accepted.applicants must complete all required registrations before the application due date. section iii. eligibility information contains information about registration.for assistance with your electronic application or for more information on the electronic submission process, visit how to apply – application guide. if you encounter a system issue beyond your control that threatens your ability to complete the submission process on-time, you must follow the dealing with system issues guidance. for assistance with application submission, contact the application submission contacts in section vii.important reminders:all pd(s)/pi(s) must include their era commons id in the credential field of the senior/key person profile component of the sf424(r&r) application package. failure to register in the commons and to include a valid pd/pi commons id in the credential field will prevent the successful submission of an electronic application to nih. see section iii of this foa for information on registration requirements.the applicant organization must ensure that the duns number it provides on the application is the same number used in the organization’s profile in the era commons and for the system for award management. additional information may be found in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.see more tips for avoiding common errors.use of common data elements in nih-funded researchmany nih ics encourage the use of common data elements (cdes) in basic, clinical, and applied research, patient registries, and other human subject research to facilitate broader and more effective use of data and advance research across studies. cdes are data elements that have been identified and defined for use in multiple data sets across different studies. use of cdes can facilitate data sharing and standardization to improve data quality and enable data integration from multiple studies and sources, including electronic health records. nih ics have identified cdes for many clinical domains (e.g., neurological disease), types of studies (e.g. genome-wide association studies (gwas)), types of outcomes (e.g., patient-reported outcomes), and patient registries (e.g., the global rare diseases patient registry and data repository). nih has established a “common data element (cde) resource portal" (http://cde.nih.gov/) to assist investigators in identifying nih-supported cdes when developing protocols, case report forms, and other instruments for data collection. the portal provides guidance about and access to nih-supported cde initiatives and other tools and resources for the appropriate use of cdes and data standards in nih-funded research. investigators are encouraged to consult the portal and describe in their applications any use they will make of nih-supported cdes in their projects.nimh has released expectations for collecting common data elements when an application involves human research participants. details can be found at not-mh-20-067 and the nimh webpage on data sharing for applicants and awardees.applicants are required to follow the instructions for post-submission materials, as described in the policy. any instructions provided here are in addition to the instructions in the policy.note: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023, the data sharing plan and genomic data sharing plan (gds) as part of the resource sharing plan will not be evaluated at time of review.only the review criteria described below will be considered in the review process. applications submitted to the nih in support of the nih mission are evaluated for scientific and technical merit through the nih peer review system.for this particular announcement, note the following:applications to this foa are not expected to be hypothesis-driven, but should propose design-directed, developmental, or discovery-driven technology research using integrative approaches.reviewers will provide an overall impact score to reflect their assessment of the likelihood for the project to exert a sustained, powerful influence on the research field(s) involved, in consideration of the following review criteria and additional review criteria (as applicable for the project proposed).reviewers will consider each of the review criteria below in the determination of scientific merit, and give a separate score for each. an application does not need to be strong in all categories to be judged likely to have major scientific impact. for example, a project that by its nature is not innovative may be essential to advance a field.does the project address an important problem or a critical barrier to progress in the field? is the prior research that serves as the key support for the proposed project rigorous? if the aims of the project are achieved, how will scientific knowledge, technical capability, and/or clinical practice be improved? how will successful completion of the aims change the concepts, methods, technologies, treatments, services, or preventative interventions that drive this field?does the proposed project address a significant biomedical research problem relevant to treatment of mental health disorders by the development, optimization, and validation of new quantitative methods, technologies, or tools?are the pd(s)/pi(s), collaborators, and other researchers well suited to the project? if early stage investigators or those in the early stages of independent careers, do they have appropriate experience and training? if established, have they demonstrated an ongoing record of accomplishments that have advanced their field(s)? if the project is collaborative or multi-pd/pi, do the investigators have complementary and integrated expertise; are their leadership approach, governance and organizational structure appropriate for the project?do the investigators have the experience and range of engineering and technical skills necessary to complete the proposed work? does the team have experience developing and validating quantitative tools and technologies using bioengineering approaches?industry partners:does the application challenge and seek to shift current research or clinical practice paradigms by utilizing novel theoretical concepts, approaches or methodologies, instrumentation, or interventions? are the concepts, approaches or methodologies, instrumentation, or interventions novel to one field of research or novel in a broad sense? is a refinement, improvement, or new application of theoretical concepts, approaches or methodologies, instrumentation, or interventions proposed?will the proposed integration of existing components into a new combination lead to a new capability?are the overall strategy, methodology, and analyses well-reasoned and appropriate to accomplish the specific aims of the project? have the investigators included plans to address weaknesses in the rigor of prior research that serves as the key support for the proposed project? have the investigators presented strategies to ensure a robust and unbiased approach, as appropriate for the work proposed? are potential problems, alternative strategies, and benchmarks for success presented? if the project is in the early stages of development, will the strategy establish feasibility and will particularly risky aspects be managed? have the investigators presented adequate plans to address relevant biological variables, such as sex, for studies in vertebrate animals or human subjects?if the project involves human subjects and/or nih-defined clinical research, are the plans to address 1) the protection of human subjects from research risks, and 2) inclusion (or exclusion) of individuals on the basis of sex/gender, race, and ethnicity, as well as the inclusion or exclusion of individuals of all ages (including children and older adults), justified in terms of the scientific goals and research strategy proposed?current state-of-the-art:translational plan:will the scientific environment in which the work will be done contribute to the probability of success? are the institutional support, equipment and other physical resources available to the investigators adequate for the project proposed? will the project benefit from unique features of the scientific environment, subject populations, or collaborative arrangements?does the application describe resources and arrangements that will promote a multidisciplinary approach?as applicable for the project proposed, reviewers will evaluate the following additional items while determining scientific and technical merit, and in providing an overall impact score, but will not give separate scores for these items.project milestones and timeline:protections for human subjectsfor research that involves human subjects but does not involve one of the categories of research that are exempt under 45 cfr part 46, the committee will evaluate the justification for involvement of human subjects and the proposed protections from research risk relating to their participation according to the following five review criteria: 1) risk to subjects, 2) adequacy of protection against risks, 3) potential benefits to the subjects and others, 4) importance of the knowledge to be gained, and 5) data and safety monitoring for clinical trials.for research that involves human subjects and meets the criteria for one or more of the categories of research that are exempt under 45 cfr part 46, the committee will evaluate: 1) the justification for the exemption, 2) human subjects involvement and characteristics, and 3) sources of materials. for additional information on review of the human subjects section, please refer to the guidelines for the review of human subjects.inclusion of women, minorities, and individuals across the lifespanwhen the proposed project involves human subjects and/or nih-defined clinical research, the committee will evaluate the proposed plans for the inclusion (or exclusion) of individuals on the basis of sex/gender, race, and ethnicity, as well as the inclusion (or exclusion) of individuals of all ages (including children and older adults) to determine if it is justified in terms of the scientific goals and research strategy proposed. for additional information on review of the inclusion section, please refer to the guidelines for the review of inclusion in clinical research.vertebrate animalsthe committee will evaluate the involvement of live vertebrate animals as part of the scientific assessment according to the following criteria: (1) description of proposed procedures involving animals, including species, strains, ages, sex, and total number to be used; (2) justifications for the use of animals versus alternative models and for the appropriateness of the species proposed; (3) interventions to minimize discomfort, distress, pain and injury; and (4) justification for euthanasia method if not consistent with the avma guidelines for the euthanasia of animals. reviewers will assess the use of chimpanzees as they would any other application proposing the use of vertebrate animals. for additional information on review of the vertebrate animals section, please refer to the worksheet for review of the vertebrate animal section.biohazardsreviewers will assess whether materials or procedures proposed are potentially hazardous to research personnel and/or the environment, and if needed, determine whether adequate protection is proposed.resubmissionsrenewalsrevisionsnote: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023, the data sharing plan and genomic data sharing plan (gds) as part of the resource sharing plan will not be evaluated at time of review.as applicable for the project proposed, reviewers will consider each of the following items, but will not give scores for these items, and should not consider them in providing an overall impact score.intellectual property (ip) strategy:applications from foreign organizationsreviewers will assess whether the project presents special opportunities for furthering research programs through the use of unusual talent, resources, populations, or environmental conditions that exist in other countries and either are not readily available in the united states or augment existing u.s. resources.select agent researchreviewers will assess the information provided in this section of the application, including 1) the select agent(s) to be used in the proposed research, 2) the registration status of all entities where select agent(s) will be used, 3) the procedures that will be used to monitor possession use and transfer of select agent(s), and 4) plans for appropriate biosafety, biocontainment, and security of the select agent(s).resource sharing plansauthentication of key biological and/or chemical resources:for projects involving key biological and/or chemical resources, reviewers will comment on the brief plans proposed for identifying and ensuring the validity of those resources.budget and period of supportreviewers will consider whether the budget and the requested period of support are fully justified and reasonable in relation to the proposed research.applications will be evaluated for scientific and technical merit by (an) appropriate scientific review group(s), convened by the center for scientific review, in accordance with nih peer review policy and procedures, using the stated review criteria. assignment to a scientific review group will be shown in the era commons.as part of the scientific peer review, all applications will receive a written critique.applications may undergo a selection process in which only those applications deemed to have the highest scientific and technical merit (generally the top half of applications under review) will be discussed and assigned an overall impact score.after the peer review of the application is completed, the pd/pi will be able to access his or her summary statement (written critique) via the era commons. refer to part 1 for dates for peer review, advisory council review, and earliest start date.information regarding the disposition of applications is available in the nih grants policy statement.if the application is under consideration for funding, nih will request "just-in-time" information from the applicant as described in the nih grants policy statement.a formal notification in the form of a notice of award (noa) will be provided to the applicant organization for successful applications. the noa signed by the grants management officer is the authorizing document and will be sent via email to the recipient's business official.recipients must comply with any funding restrictions described in section iv.5. funding restrictions. selection of an application for award is not an authorization to begin performance. any costs incurred before receipt of the noa are at the recipient's risk. these costs may be reimbursed only to the extent considered allowable pre-award costs.any application awarded in response to this foa will be subject to terms and conditions found on the award conditions and information for nih grants website. this includes any recent legislation and policy applicable to awards that is highlighted on this website.institutional review board or independent ethics committee approval: recipient institutions must ensure that protocols are reviewed by their irb or iec. to help ensure the safety of participants enrolled in nih-funded studies, the recipient must provide nih copies of documents related to all major changes in the status of ongoing protocols.all nih grant and cooperative agreement awards include the nih grants policy statement as part of the noa. for these terms of award, see the nih grants policy statement part ii: terms and conditions of nih grant awards, subpart a: general and part ii: terms and conditions of nih grant awards, subpart b: terms and conditions for specific types of grants, recipients, and activities, including of note, but not limited to:if a recipient is successful and receives a notice of award, in accepting the award, the recipient agrees that any activities under the award are subject to all provisions currently in effect or implemented during the period of the award, other department regulations and policies in effect at the time of the award, and applicable statutory provisions.recipients of federal financial assistance (ffa) from hhs must administer their programs in compliance with federal civil rights laws that prohibit discrimination on the basis of race, color, national origin, disability, age and, in some circumstances, religion, conscience, and sex. this includes ensuring programs are accessible to persons with limited english proficiency. the hhs office for civil rights provides guidance on complying with civil rights laws enforced by hhs. please see https://www.hhs.gov/civil-rights/for-providers/provider-obligations/index.html and http://www.hhs.gov/ocr/civilrights/understanding/section1557/index.html.hhs recognizes that research projects are often limited in scope for many reasons that are nondiscriminatory, such as the principal investigator’s scientific interest, funding limitations, recruitment requirements, and other considerations. thus, criteria in research protocols that target or exclude certain populations are warranted where nondiscriminatory justifications establish that such criteria are appropriate with respect to the health or safety of the subjects, the scientific study design, or the purpose of the research. for additional guidance regarding how the provisions apply to nih grant programs, please contact the scientific/research contact that is identified in section vii under agency contacts of this foa.please contact the hhs office for civil rights for more information about obligations and prohibitions under federal civil rights laws at https://www.hhs.gov/ocr/about-us/contact-us/index.html or call 1-800-368-1019 or tdd 1-800-537-7697.in accordance with the statutory provisions contained in section 872 of the duncan hunter national defense authorization act of fiscal year 2009 (public law 110-417), nih awards will be subject to the federal awardee performance and integrity information system (fapiis) requirements. fapiis requires federal award making officials to review and consider information about an applicant in the designated integrity and performance system (currently fapiis) prior to making an award. an applicant, at its option, may review information in the designated integrity and performance systems accessible through fapiis and comment on any information about itself that a federal agency previously entered and is currently in fapiis. the federal awarding agency will consider any comments by the applicant, in addition to other information in fapiis, in making a judgement about the applicant’s integrity, business ethics, and record of performance under federal awards when completing the review of risk posed by applicants as described in 45 cfr part 75.205 and 2 cfr part 200.206 “federal awarding agency review of risk posed by applicants.” this provision will apply to all nih grants and cooperative agreements except fellowships.not applicabledata management and sharingnote: the nih policy for data management and sharing is effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023.consistent with the nih policy for data management and sharing, when data management and sharing is applicable to the award, recipients will be required to adhere to the data management and sharing requirements as outlined in the nih grants policy statement. upon the approval of a data management and sharing plan, it is required for recipients to implement the plan as described.when multiple years are involved, recipients will be required to submit the research performance progress report (rppr) annually and financial statements as required in the nih grants policy statement.a final rppr, invention statement, and the expenditure data portion of the federal financial report are required for closeout of an award, as described in the nih grants policy statement. nih foas outline intended research goals and objectives. post award, nih will review and measure performance based on the details and outcomes that are shared within the rppr, as described at 45 cfr part 75.301 and 2 cfr part 200.301.the federal funding accountability and transparency act of 2006 (transparency act), includes a requirement for recipients of federal grants to report information about first-tier subawards and executive compensation under federal assistance awards issued in fy2011 or later. all recipients of applicable nih grants and cooperative agreements are required to report to the federal subaward reporting system (fsrs) available at www.fsrs.gov on all subawards over $25,000. see the nih grants policy statement for additional information on this reporting requirement.in accordance with the regulatory requirements provided at 45 cfr 75.113 and appendix xii to 45 cfr part 75, recipients that have currently active federal grants, cooperative agreements, and procurement contracts from all federal awarding agencies with a cumulative total value greater than $10,000,000 for any period of time during the period of performance of a federal award, must report and maintain the currency of information reported in the system for award management (sam) about civil, criminal, and administrative proceedings in connection with the award or performance of a federal award that reached final disposition within the most recent five-year period. the recipient must also make semiannual disclosures regarding such proceedings. proceedings information will be made publicly available in the designated integrity and performance system (currently fapiis). this is a statutory requirement under section 872 of public law 110-417, as amended (41 u.s.c. 2313). as required by section 3010 of public law 111-212, all information posted in the designated integrity and performance system on or after april 15, 2011, except past performance reviews required for federal procurement contracts, will be publicly available. full reporting requirements and procedures are found in appendix xii to 45 cfr part 75 – award term and conditions for recipient integrity and performance matters.we encourage inquiries concerning this funding opportunity and welcome the opportunity to answer questions from potential applicants.era service desk (questions regarding assist, era commons, application errors and warnings, documenting system problems that threaten submission by the due date, and post-submission issues)finding help online: http://grants.nih.gov/support/ (preferred method of contact) telephone: 301-402-7469 or 866-504-9552 (toll free)general grants information (questions regarding application instructions, application processes, and nih grant resources) email: grantsinfo@nih.gov (preferred method of contact) telephone: 301-637-3015grants.gov customer support (questions regarding grants.gov registration and workspace) contact center telephone: 800-518-4726 email: support@grants.govjessica tilghman, ph.d. national institute of mental health (nimh) telephone: 301-827-0439 email: jessica.tilghman@nih.govexamine your era commons account for review assignment and contact information (information appears two weeks after the submission due date).rita sisco national institute of mental health (nimh) telephone: 301-443-2805 email: siscor@mail.nih.govrecently issued trans-nih policy notices may affect your application submission. a full list of policy notices published by nih is provided in the nih guide for grants and contracts. all awards are subject to the terms and conditions, cost principles, and other considerations described in the nih grants policy statement.awards are made under the authorization of sections 301 and 405 of the public health service act as amended (42 usc 241 and 284) and under federal regulations 42 cfr part 52 and 45 cfr part 75.weekly toc for this announcement nih funding opportunities and noticesnote: for help accessing pdf, rtf, ms word, excel, powerpoint, audio or video files, see help downloading files.