NIDA Mentored Clinical Scientist Development Program Award in Substance Use and Substance Use Disorder Research (K12 Clinical Trial Optional)
national institutes of health (nih)national institute on drug abuse (nida)nida mentored clinical scientist development program award in substance use and substance use disorder research (k12 clinical trial optional)k12 physician scientist award program (psa)reissue of par-18-746par-20-249nonesee section iii. 3. additional information on eligibility.93.279this funding opportunity announcement (foa) encourages applications for institutional research career development (k12) programs that propose to support intensive supervised research and career development experiences for clinician scientists (scholars) leading to research independence in the area of substance use and substance use disorder research.for this foa, clinician scientists may include (but are not limited to) physicians, clinical psychologists, epidemiologists, doctoral level social workers, pharmacists, and behavioral scientists. scholars are expected to be supported for 3-5 years on consecutive 12-month appointments. candidates selected for support as scholars must hold a doctorate and commit a minimum of 9 person months (equivalent to 75% of full-time professional effort) to conducting clinical research and career development activities associated with the proposed programthis foa allows appointment of scholars proposing to serve as the lead investigator of an independent clinical trial; or proposing a separate ancillary study to an existing trial; or proposing to gain research experience in a clinical trial led by another investigator, as part of their research and career development.july 1, 2020february 1, 202130 days prior to the application due datemarch 1, 2021, august 2, 2021, november 15, 2021, march 1, 2022, august 2, 2022, november 15, 2022, march 1, 2023, august 2, 2023, november 15, 2023all applications are due by 5:00 pm local time of applicant organization. all types of non-aids applications allowed for this funding opportunity announcement are due on the listed date(s).applicants are encouraged to apply early to allow adequate time to make any corrections to errors found in the application during the submission process by the due date.march 1, 2021, august 2, 2021, november 15, 2021, march 1, 2022, august 2, 2022, november 15, 2022, march 1, 2023, august 2, 2023, november 15, 2023the first aids due date for this foa is march 1, 2021.all applications are due by 5:00 pm local time of applicant organization. all types of aids and aids-related applications allowed for this funding opportunity announcement are due on the listed date(s).applicants are encouraged to apply early to allow adequate time to make any corrections to errors found in the application during the submission process by the due date.august 2021, november 2021, march 2022, august 2022, november 2022, march 2023, august 2023, november 2023, march 2024october 2021, january 2022, may 2022, october 2022, january 2023, may 2023, october 2023, january 2024, may 2024december 2021november 16, 2023not applicableit is critical that applicants follow the training (t) instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, except where instructed to do otherwise (in this foa or in a notice from the nih guide for grants and contracts). conformance to all requirements (both in the application guide and the foa) is required and strictly enforced. applicants must read and follow all application instructions in the application guide as well as any program-specific instructions noted in section iv. when the program-specific instructions deviate from those in the application guide, follow the program-specific instructions. applications that do not comply with these instructions may be delayed or not accepted for review.there are several options available to submit your application through grants.gov to nih and department of health and human services partners. you must use one of these submission options to access the application forms for this opportunity.part 1. overview information part 2. full text of the announcement section i. funding opportunity description section ii. award information section iii. eligibility information section iv. application and submission information section v. application review information section vi. award administration information section vii. agency contacts section viii. other informationthe overall goal of the nih research career development program is to help ensure that a diverse pool of highly trained scientists is available in appropriate scientific disciplines to address the nation's biomedical, behavioral, and clinical research needs. more information about career programs may be found at the nih extramural research training and career development website https://researchtraining.nih.gov/.this foa encourages applications from organizations that propose creative and innovative institutional research career development programs in the mission area(s) of the nih. the proposed institutional research career development program may complement other, ongoing research training and career development programs at the applicant institution, but the proposed career development experiences must be distinct from those career development programs currently receiving federal support.the purpose of the nida mentored clinical scientist development award in substance use disorder research (k12) is to encourage institutions to develop and/or sustain programs that support intensive, mentored research and career development experiences for clinician scientists (scholars). it is expected that these programs will provide scholars the mentoring, training, and research experiences necessary for research independence in the area of substance use and substance use disorder research. each award is intended to support scholars for 3-5 years of consecutive 12-month appointments.applications for this award must propose a comprehensive career development and research plan that: (1) has intrinsic research importance in the area of substance use and/or substance use disorder research and is within the mission of nida, (2) will serve as a suitable vehicle for learning the methodology, theories, and concepts needed for a well-trained, independent clinician researcher in the area of substance use or substance use disorder research; and (3) will ensure high research productivity. research areas of interest at nida include, but are not limited to translational research; epidemiology; health services including implementation and dissemination research; prevention; treatment; clinical neurosciences; genetics; hiv/aids; medical consequences; and development of pharmacotherapeutic, behavioral, and device-based treatments.programs should include both didactic components and supervised research experiences designed to accommodate research candidates with varying levels of experience and at various stages of their career. for example, a scholar with limited experience in each field of research may find it appropriate to engage in a structured, phased developmental program, including a designated period of didactic training followed by a period of supervised research experience. although scholars with limited research experiences can be appointed to the program, they are expected to be prepared to apply for independent research funding by the completion of the program. nih also strongly encourages, but does not require, institutions to develop and use individual development plans (idps, not-od-14-113).within the framework of this program's longstanding commitment to excellence, attention must be given to recruiting scholars from racial or ethnic groups underrepresented in the biomedical, behavioral and clinical sciences, and individuals with disabilities.further, programs are required to appoint an advisory committee to provide oversight of the development, implementation, and evaluation of recruitment strategies, the recruitment and retention of candidates, and the evaluation of the overall effectiveness of the program. one annual k12 advisory committee member meeting is required—additional meetings throughout the year are highly encouraged. a detailed evaluation plan is also required.clinician scientist is defined in this foa as an investigator who has a: 1) medical doctorate, public health doctorate, or other doctorate related to human healthcare; and/or an investigator with a 2) research doctorate and either clinical responsibilities or direct interaction with human subjects. using this definition, clinician scientists may include physicians, clinical psychologists, epidemiologists, social workers, pharmacists, behavioral scientists, etc.structuring the program within a consortium of institutions, the use of short-term rotations, or other strategies to enhance the participation and research training experience of scholars is encouraged. short-term rotations and other options must be designed to fall within the scope of the goals of the proposed k12 program, take advantage of substance use and substance use disorder-related educational or research experiences not available at the applicant institution, and be supervised.special considerationshiv/aids counseling and testing policy for the national institute on drug abuse: considering recent significant advances in rapid testing for hiv and in effective treatments for hiv, nida has revised its 2001 policy on hiv counseling and testing. nida funded researchers are strongly encouraged to provide and/or refer research subjects to hiv risk reduction education and education about the benefits of hiv treatment, counseling and testing, referral to treatment, and other appropriate interventions to prevent acquisition and transmission of hiv. this policy applies to all nida funded research conducted domestically and/or internationally. for more information see: http://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/notice-files/not-da-07-013.html.national advisory council on drug abuse recommended guidelines for the administration of drugs to human subjects:the national advisory council on drug abuse (nacda) recognizes the importance of research involving the administration of drugs with abuse potential, and dependence or addiction liability, to human subjects. potential applicants are encouraged to obtain and review these council recommendations before submitting an application that will administer compounds to human subjects. the guidelines are available on nida's web site at https://www.drugabuse.gov/funding/clinical-research/nacda-guidelines-administration-drugs-to-human-subjects.points to consider regarding tobacco industry funding of nida applicants:the national advisory council on drug abuse (nacda) encourages nida and its grantees to consider the points set forth about existing or prospective sponsored research agreements with tobacco companies or their related entities and the impact acceptance of tobacco industry funding could have on nida's credibility and reputation within the scientific community. please see: (https://www.drugabuse.gov/about-nida/advisory-boards-groups/national-advisory-council-drug-abuse- nacda/council-statements/points-to-consider-regarding-tobacco-industry-funding-nida for further details.data harmonization for substance use disorder research using the phenx toolkit: data harmonization for substance abuse and addiction via the phenx toolkit:nida strongly encourages investigators involved in human subjects studies to employ a common set of tools and resources that will promote the collection of comparable data across studies and to do so by incorporating the measures from the core and specialty collections, which are available in the substance abuse and addiction collection of the phenx toolkit: (www.phenxtoolkit.org).please see: not-da-12-008 (https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/notice-files/not-da-12-008.html) for further details.note: this funding opportunity announcement (foa) allows appointment of scholars proposing to serve as the lead investigator of an independent clinical trial; or proposing a separate ancillary study to an existing trial; or proposing to gain research experience in a clinical trial led by another investigator, as part of their research and career development. applicants may review the information found on the nih office of extramural research "clinical trial requirements for grants and contracts": https://grants.nih.gov/policy/clinical- trials.htm for more details about how nih is enhancing accountability and transparency of clinical research.see section viii. other information for award authorities and regulations.grant: a support mechanism providing money, property, or both to an eligible entity to carry out an approved project or activity.new renewal resubmissionthe oer glossary and the sf424 (r&r) application guide provide details on these application types. only those application types listed here are allowed for this foa.optional: accepting applications that either propose or do not propose clinical trial(s)need help determining whether you are doing a clinical trial?the number of awards is contingent upon nih appropriations and the submission of a sufficient number of meritorious applications.direct costs are limited to $500,000 per year.the project period duration may range from 3 to 5 years.individuals designing, directing, and implementing the career development program may request salary and fringe benefits appropriate for the person months devoted to the program. salaries requested may not exceed the levels commensurate with the institution's policy for similar positions and may not exceed the congressionally mandated cap. if mentoring interactions and other activities with scholars are considered a regular part of an individual's academic duties, then mentoring and other interactions with scholars are non- reimbursable from grant funds.the salaries of administrative and clerical staff should normally be treated as indirect (f&a) costs. direct charging of these costs may be appropriate only if all of the following conditions are met: (1) administrative or clerical services are integral to a project or activity; (2) individuals involved can be specifically identified with the project or activity; (3) such costs are explicitly included in the budget or have the prior written approval of the federal awarding agency; and (4) the costs are not also recovered as indirect costs. when specifically identified and justified, these expenses must be itemized in sections a and b, as appropriate, of the r&r budget.participant scholars are those individuals who benefit from the proposed activities and experiences involved in the career development program. scholar costs must be justified as specifically required for the proposed career development program and based on institutional policies for salaries paid to individuals in similar positions, regardless of the source of funds. these expenses must be itemized in the proposed budget.nida will contribute up to $100,000 per year toward the salary of each k12 scholar. note that the salary allowance will be commensurate with the actual number of person months committed to program-related activities. in addition, nida will allow for funds up to $50,000 annually per scholar for research related costs—examples include consultants, supplies, equipment, technical personnel, travel, and statistical services.consultant costs, equipment, supplies, travel for key persons, and other program-related expenses may be included in the proposed budget. these expenses must be justified as specifically required by the proposed program and must not duplicate items generally available at the applicant institution.travel expenses up to $1,200 per advisory committee member are permitted to help defray travel costs related to functions and responsibilities associated with the k12 program.salaries for support of ancillary personnel; i.e., mentors and advisory committee members, will not be supported.indirect costs (also known as facilities & administrative [f&a] costs) are reimbursed at 8% of modified total direct costs (exclusive of tuition and fees, consortium costs in excess of $25,000, and expenditures for equipment), rather than on the basis of a negotiated rate agreement.nih grants policies as described in the nih grants policy statement will apply to the applications submitted and awards made from this foa.higher education institutionsthe following types of higher education institutions are always encouraged to apply for nih support as public or private institutions of higher education:nonprofits other than institutions of higher educationgovernmentsotherthe sponsoring institution must assure support for the proposed program. appropriate institutional commitment to the program includes the provision of adequate staff, facilities, and educational resources that can contribute to the planned program.if multiple sites are involved in the institutional career development program, the applicant institution must be one of the program sites. the need for and use of multiple sites must be justified and their interaction and coordination within the program must be described. each individual site must detail its commitment to the training program by providing adequate resources to ensure a successful research and career development experience for the scholars.the applicant institution must have a strong and high-quality research program in the area(s) proposed under this foa and must have the requisite faculty, staff, potential scholars and facilities on site to conduct the proposed institutional program. in many cases, it is anticipated that the proposed program will complement other ongoing career development programs occurring at the applicant institution and that a substantial number of program faculty will have active research projects in which participating scholars may gain relevant experiences consistent with their research interests and goals.non-domestic (non-u.s.) entities (foreign institutions) are not eligible to apply.non-domestic (non-u.s.) components of u.s. organizations are not eligible to apply.applicant organizationsapplicant organizations must complete and maintain the following registrations as described in the sf 424 (r&r) application guide to be eligible to apply for or receive an award. all registrations must be completed prior to the application being submitted. registration can take 6 weeks or more, so applicants should begin the registration process as soon as possible. the nih policy on late submission of grant applications states that failure to complete registrations in advance of a due date is not a valid reason for a late submission.program directors/principal investigators (pd(s)/pi(s))all pd(s)/pi(s) must have an era commons account. pd(s)/pi(s) should work with their organizational officials to either create a new account or to affiliate their existing account with the applicant organization in era commons. if the pd/pi is also the organizational signing official, they must have two distinct era commons accounts, one for each role. obtaining an era commons account can take up to 2 weeks.any individual(s) with the skills, knowledge, and resources necessary to carry out the proposed research training program as the training program director/principal investigator (training pd/pi) is invited to work with his/her organization to develop an application for support. individuals from underrepresented racial and ethnic groups as well as individuals with disabilities are always encouraged to apply for nih support. for institutions/organizations proposing multiple pds/pis, visit the multiple program director/principal investigator policy and submission details in the senior/key person profile (expanded) component of the sf 424 (r&r) application guide.the pd/pi should be an established clinical researcher and/or clinician scientist in the area of substance use and/or substance use disorder research and capable of providing both administrative and scientific leadership to the development and implementation of the proposed program. the pd/pi may be a basic or other nonclinical researcher on a multiple pd/pi application, if at least one pd/pi is a clinical researcher. the pd/pi should further be able to demonstrate a superior record of preparation of postdoctoral clinicians for independent research and high research productivity.the pd/pi will be expected to monitor and assess the program and submit all documents and reports as required. the pd/pi will be responsible for the selection and appointment of scholars to the approved career development program, and for the overall direction, management, administration, and evaluation of the program. the pd/pi is responsible for appointing members of the advisory committee and using their recommendations to determine the appropriate allotment of funds for research and career development. the pd/pi must be able to demonstrate access to departmental or other funds for a scholar's research project in the event of a gap in his or her mentor's research funding.this foa does not require cost sharing as defined in the nih grants policy statement.applicant organizations may submit more than one application, provided that each application is programmatically distinct.the nih will not accept duplicate or highly overlapping applications under review at the same time. this means that the nih will not accept:program faculty should have strong records as researchers, including recent publications and successful competition for research support in the area of the proposed research training program. program faculty should also have a record of research training, including successful, former trainees who have established productive careers relevant to the nih mission. researchers from diverse backgrounds, including racial and ethnic minorities, persons with disabilities, and women are encouraged to participate as mentors.in addition, proposed mentors should be 1) investigators in the area of substance use/substance use disorder research, 2) have a successful record of providing the type of career development and training activities required under this award, and 3) have a successful record of engendering his or her scholars' independence as evidenced by scholars' research productivity and ability to obtain independent research funding. proposed mentors should have independent nih research funding (e.g., r01, r21, p50) or equivalent at the time of the k12 award and be committed to mentoring the scholars throughout their total period of development under the award. each scholar appointed to the program must have a primary mentor. additional mentors are optional.scholars to be supported by the institutional career development program must be at the career level for which the planned program is intended. scholars are expected to devote a minimum of 9 person-months (75% of full-time professional effort) during the appointment on the k12 award.scholars must be citizens or noncitizen nationals of the united states or have been lawfully admitted for permanent residence at the time of appointment. additional details on citizenship requirements are available in the nih grants policy statement.scholars must have received, as of the beginning date of the k12 appointment, a ph.d. in a clinical discipline, m.d., pharm.d., or comparable doctoral degree from an accredited domestic or foreign institution. comparable doctoral degrees include, but are not limited to, the following: psy.d., dr.ph., sc.d., d.v.m., d.o., o.d., d.m.d., n.d. (doctor of naturopathy), as well as a doctoral degree in nursing research. documentation by an authorized official of the degree granting institution certifying all degree requirements have been met prior to the beginning date of the training appointment is acceptable.each scholar must be assigned a primary mentor (additional mentors, although optional, are encouraged), and the proposed research experience must be designed to provide a strong foundation for applications for independent research funding.in general, candidates for selection to the program cannot have had a previous mentored career development award, including institutional mentored career development support. programs may consider these candidates, however, when one or more of the following conditions exist and the aggregate total of nih mentored career award support for the candidate will not exceed 6 years: 1) a major change in the candidate's field of study has occurred; 2) there has been a substantial hiatus in the candidate's research career; or 3) the candidate's prior mentored career development support was through a kl2 program at a nih clinical and translational science award (ctsa) institution. in addition, current and former pd/pis on nih research project grants or equivalent non-phs peer reviewed research grants receiving over $100,000 direct costs per year are ineligible.since nida's k12 programs are designed to prepare scholars to apply for independent research funding in substance use disorder research, nida will generally not support a subsequent mentored career development award for a nida k12 scholar. for nida k12 scholars who terminate their institutional k12 support early by design in order to obtain an individual mentored career development award, a maximum aggregate limit of 6 years of mentored career support may be provided per nida policy.k12 scholars should be strongly encouraged to apply for independent research grant support (e.g., r01, r03) during their appointment to the k12 award. scholars in the last two years of career award support may reduce effort on the career award to a minimum of 6 person months and hold concurrent support from their career award and a competing phs research grant on which they are principal investigator or subproject director.the application forms package specific to this opportunity must be accessed through assist, grants.gov workspace or an institutional system-to-system solution. links to apply using assist or grants.gov workspace are available in part 1 of this foa. see your administrative office for instructions if you plan to use an institutional system-to-system solution.it is critical that applicants follow the training (t) instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide except where instructed in this funding opportunity announcement to do otherwise. conformance to the requirements in the application guide is required and strictly enforced. applications that are out of compliance with these instructions may be delayed or not accepted for review.letter of intentalthough a letter of intent is not required, is not binding, and does not enter into the review of a subsequent application, the information that it contains allows ic staff to estimate the potential review workload and plan the review.by the date listed in part 1. overview information, prospective applicants are asked to submit a letter of intent that includes the following information:the letter of intent should be sent to: nidaletterofintent@mail.nih.govall page limitations described in the sf424 (r&r) application guide and the table of page limits must be followed.instructions for application submissionthe following section supplements the instructions found in the sf424 (r&r) application guide and should be used for preparing an application to this foa.follow all instructions provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.follow all instructions provided in the sf424 (r&r) application.follow all instructions provided in the sf424 (r&r) application, with the following additional modifications:project summary/abstract. provide an abstract of the entire application. include the objectives, rationale and design of the research career development program, as well as key activities in the training plan. indicate the planned duration of appointments, the projected number of scholars including their levels (i.e., l, postdoctoral, faculty), and intended scholar outcomes.other attachments. a plan must be provided for the appointment of an advisory committee to monitor progress of the career development program.the advisory committee will be responsible for general oversight, guidance, and evaluation of the overall effectiveness of the program. the composition, roles, responsibilities, and desired expertise of committee members, frequency of committee meetings, and other relevant information should be included. describe how the advisory committee will evaluate the overall effectiveness of the program. committee members must be:(1) recognized as accomplished investigators in the area of substance use research, (2) actively involved in substance use disorder related basic or clinical research, (3) have a successful record of providing the type of training required under this award, and (4) have a successful record of engendering scholars' independence as evidenced by scholars' research productivity and their ability to obtain independent research funding. although members may be either internal or external to the applicant institution, appointment of at least some external members is encouraged.one annual k12 advisory committee member meeting is required—additional meetings throughout the year are highly encouraged. detail the required annual meeting of the advisory committee as well as any other planned meetings. applicants may propose meetings using alternative media rather than face-to-face meetings or some combination, so long as their objectives can be met.proposed advisory committee members should be named in the application only if they have been invited to participate at the time the application is submitted. renewal applications with advisory committees should include the names of all committee members during the past project period. please name your file "advisory_committee.pdf".the filename provided for each “other attachment” will be the name used for the bookmark in the electronic application in era commons.follow all instructions provided in the sf424 (r&r) application.follow all instructions provided in the sf424 (r&r) application.follow all instructions provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.follow all instructions provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide with the following additional modifications:the phs 398 research training program plan form is comprised of the following sections:follow all instructions provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide with the following additional modifications:particular attention must be given to the required training data tables. table 2, table 3, table 4, table 5 and table 8 must be completed. all other data tables listed in the sf424 (r&r) application guide do not apply. program planprogram administration.describe the acknowledged strengths, leadership and administrative skills, training experience, scientific expertise, and active research of the pd/pi. relate these strengths to the proposed management of the career development program. describe the planned strategy and administrative structure to be used to oversee and monitor the program. if there are multiple pds/pis, then the plan for program administration is expected to synergize with the "multiple pd/pi leadership plan" section of the application.when a program administrator position is planned, a description of the scientific expertise, leadership, and administrative capabilities essential to coordinate a program for developing investigators must be included in the application.provide documentation of the pd/pi(s) expertise, experience, and ability to oversee the organization, management and implementation of any clinical trial, including any feasibility or ancillary study, proposed by scholar(s).proposed faculty.the application must include information about the program faculty who will serve as preceptors/mentors and provide guidance and expertise appropriate for the proposed research and career development plan proposed in the application. describe the complementary expertise and experiences of the proposed program faculty, including active research and other scholarly activities in which the faculty are engaged, as well as experience mentoring and training individuals at the proposed career stage(s).if a mentor will supervise a scholar proposing to either lead a clinical trial, or gain research experience in a clinical trial, provide documentation of the mentor's expertise, experience, and ability to provide guidance in the organization, management and implementation of the proposed clinical trial, ancillary, or feasibility study and help the scholar meet the study timelines.proposed career development.describe how scholars will be educated in human health and disease-related substance use and substance use disorder research.programs should also describe the anticipated timeline by which scholars will develop a research project that will begin during the nida k12 support period that will be suitable for continuation beyond the k12 support period via an individual funding mechanism. programs should also describe an administrative structure that facilitates successful adherence to this anticipated timeline, including potential corrective measures if milestones are not met.short-term rotation or other strategies to enhance the participation and experience of scholars, if used, should be well-described and justified. applicants will not need to be able to identify scholars but must describe the selection criteria and process.provide documentation of the administrative, data coordinating, enrollment and laboratory/testing centers, appropriate for any clinical trial, including any feasibility or ancillary study, proposed by scholar(s).for renewal applications, highlight how the career development program has evolved in response to changes in relevant scientific and technical knowledge, educational practices, and to evaluation of the training program. describe the program's accomplishments and progress over the past funding period(s), including any success of former scholars in seeking independent support and establishing productive scientific careers. document a continued need for support for this program.institutional environment and commitment to the program.the sponsoring institution must assure support for the proposed program including assurance that sufficient time will be allowed for the pds/pis and other program faculty to contribute to the proposed program, and that there will be protected time for scholars (9 person months, equivalent to 75%) selected for the program. the application must include a signed letter, on institutional letterhead, that describes the applicant institution's commitment to the planned program. appropriate institutional commitment to the program includes the provision of adequate staff, facilities, and educational resources that can contribute to the planned program.this commitment may also include features such as pd/pi salary, or tuition support for individuals involved in the proposed career development program, or other commitments essential to a successful career development program.plan for instruction in the responsible conduct of researchindividuals are required to comply with the instructions for plan for instruction in the responsible conduct of research as provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.appendixlimited items are allowed in the appendix. follow all instructions for the appendix as described in the sf424 (r&r) application guide; any instructions provided here are in addition to thesf424 (r&r) application guide instructions.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed, with the following additional modifications:study record: phs human subjects and clinical trials informationdo not use. attempts to submit a full, detailed study record will result in a validation error.delayed onset studynote: delayed onset does not apply to a study that can be described but will not start immediately (i.e., delayed start).if you answered “yes” to the question “are human subjects involved?” on the r&r other project information form, you must complete a delayed onset study.if you check the “anticipated clinical trial” box within your delayed onset study, then the justification attachment must acknowledge that additional clinical trial information will be provided to the awarding component before any appointed scholar begins independent clinical trial research.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.see part 1. section iii.1 for information regarding the requirement for obtaining a unique entity identifier and for completing and maintaining active registrations in system for award management (sam), nato commercial and government entity (ncage) code (if applicable), era commons, and grants.govpart i. overview information contains information about key dates and times. applicants are encouraged to submit applications before the due date to ensure they have time to make any application corrections that might be necessary for successful submission. when a submission date falls on a weekend or federal holiday, the application deadline is automatically extended to the next business day. organizations must submit applications to grants.gov (the online portal to find and apply for grants across all federal agencies). applicants must then complete the submission process by tracking the status of the application in the era commons, nih’s electronic system for grants administration. nih and grants.gov systems check the application against many of the application instructions upon submission. errors must be corrected and a changed/corrected application must be submitted to grants.gov on or before the application due date and time. if a changed/corrected application is submitted after the deadline, the application will be considered late. applications that miss the due date and time are subjected to the nih policy on late application submission. applicants are responsible for viewing their application before the due date in the era commons to ensure accurate and successful submission. information on the submission process and a definition of on-time submission are provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.this initiative is not subject to intergovernmental review.all nih awards are subject to the terms and conditions, cost principles, and other considerations described in the nih grants policy statement. pre-award costs are allowable only as described in the nih grants policy statement.any additional costs associated with the decision to allow research elective credit for short-term research training are not allowable charges on an institutional training grant.applications must be submitted electronically following the instructions described in the sf424 (r&r) application guide. paper applications will not be accepted.applicants must complete all required registrations before the application due date. section iii. eligibility information contains information about registration.for assistance with your electronic application or for more information on the electronic submission process, visit how to apply – application guide. if you encounter a system issue beyond your control that threatens your ability to complete the submission process on-time, you must follow the dealing with system issues guidance. for assistance with application submission, contact the application submission contacts in section vii.important reminders:all pd(s)/pi(s) must include their era commons id in the credential field of the senior/key person profile component of the sf424(r&r) application package. failure to register in the commons and to include a valid pd/pi commons id in the credential field will prevent the successful submission of an electronic application to nih. the applicant organization must ensure that the duns number it provides on the application is the same number used in the organization’s profile in the era commons and for the system for award management (sam). additional information may be found in the sf424 (r&r) application guide. see more tips for avoiding common errors.upon receipt, applications will be evaluated for completeness and compliance with application instructions by the center for scientific review, nih. applications that are incomplete or non-compliant will not be reviewed.applicants are required to follow the instructions for post-submission materials, as described in the policy. any instructions provided here are in addition to the instructions in the policy.only the review criteria described below will be considered in the review process.applications submitted to the nih in support of the nih mission are evaluated for scientific and technical merit through the nih peer review system.in addition,for applications involving clinical trials: a proposed clinical trial application may include study design, methods, and intervention that are not by themselves innovative but address important questions or unmet needs. additionally, the results of the clinical trial may indicate that further clinical development of the intervention is unwarranted or lead to new avenues of scientific investigationreviewers will provide an overall impact score to reflect their assessment of the likelihood that the proposed training program will prepare individuals for successful, productive scientific research careers and thereby exert a sustained influence on the research field(s) involved, in consideration of the following review criteria and additional review criteria (as applicable for the project proposed).reviewers will consider each of the review criteria below in the determination of the merit of the training program, and give a separate score for each. when applicable, the reviewers will consider relevant questions in the context of proposed short-term training. an application does not need to be strong in all categories to be judged likely to have major scientific impact.career development program and environment program director(s)/principal investigator(s) (pd(s)/pi(s))mentorsscholarstraining recordas applicable for the project proposed, reviewers will evaluate the following additional items while determining scientific and technical merit, and in providing an overall impact score, but will not give separate scores for these items.protections for human subjectsgenerally not applicable. reviewers should bring any concerns to the attention of the scientific review officer.inclusion of women, minorities, and individuals across the lifespangenerally not applicable. reviewers should bring any concerns to the attention of the scientific review officer.vertebrate animalsgenerally not applicable. reviewers should bring any concerns to the attention of the scientific review officer.biohazardsgenerally not applicable. reviewers should bring any concerns to the attention of the scientific review officer.resubmissionsfor resubmissions, the committee will evaluate the application as now presented, taking into consideration the responses to comments from the previous scientific review group and changes made to the project.renewalsfor renewals, the committee will consider the progress made during the last funding period, including on the recruitment plan to enhance diversity, and training in the responsible conduct of research. the committee will also consider whether the program has been adequately evaluated, and whether the results of the evaluation support a continued need for this program. the application should describe the program's accomplishments over the past funding period(s), and if applicable, propose changes that would improve or strengthen the career development experience. the approach for the next project period should be responsive to the results of the program's evaluation. there should be evidence of a successful past training record of the pd/pi and mentors, including the success of former scholars in seeking independent support and establishing productive scientific research careersrevisionsnot applicableas applicable for the project proposed, reviewers will consider each of the following items, but will not give scores for these items, and should not consider them in providing an overall impact score.recruitment plan to enhance diversitypeer reviewers will separately evaluate the recruitment plan to enhance diversity after the overall score has been determined. reviewers will examine the strategies to be used in the recruitment of prospective individuals from underrepresented groups. the plan will be rated as acceptable or unacceptable, and the consensus of the review committee will be included in an administrative note in the summary statement.training in the responsible conduct of researchall applications for support under this foa must include a plan to fulfill nih requirements for instruction in the responsible conduct of research (rcr). taking into account the specific characteristics of the career development program, the level of scholar experience, and the particular circumstances of the scholars, the reviewers will evaluate the adequacy of the proposed rcr training in relation to the following five required components: 1) format - does the plan satisfactorily address the format of instruction, e.g. lectures, coursework and/or real-time discussion groups, including face-to-face interaction? (a plan involving only on- line instruction is not acceptable.); 2) subject matter – does the plan include a sufficiently broad selection of subject matter, such as conflict of interest, authorship, data management, human subjects and animal use, laboratory safety, research misconduct, research ethics? 3) faculty participation - does the plan adequately describe how faculty will participate in the instruction? for renewal applications, are all training faculty who served as course directors, speakers, lecturers, and/or discussion leaders during the past project period named in the application? 4) duration of instruction - does the plan meet the minimum requirements for rcr, i.e., at least eight contact hours of instruction? 5) frequency of instruction – does the plan meet the minimum requirements for rcr, i.e., at least once during each career stage (undergraduate, post- baccalaureate, predoctoral, postdoctoral, and faculty levels) and at a frequency of no less than once every four years?for renewal applications, does the progress report document acceptable rcr instruction in the five components described above? does the plan describe how participation in rcr instruction is being monitored? are appropriate changes in the plan for rcr instruction proposed in response to feedback and in response to evolving issues related to responsible conduct of research?plans and past record will be rated as acceptable or unacceptable, and the summary statement will provide the consensus of the review committee.select agent researchreviewers will assess the information provided in this section of the application, including (1) the select agent(s) to be used in the proposed research, (2) the registration status of all entities where select agent(s) will be used, (3) the procedures that will be used to monitor possession use and transfer of select agent(s), and (4) plans for appropriate biosafety, biocontainment, and security of the select agent(s).budget and period of supportreviewers will consider whether the budget and the requested period of support are fully justified and reasonable in relation to the proposed research.applications will be evaluated for scientific and technical merit by (an) appropriate scientific review group(s), convened by nida in accordance with nih peer review policy and procedures, using the stated review criteria. assignment to a scientific review group will be shown in the era commons.as part of the scientific peer review, all applications:applications will be assigned to the appropriate nih institute or center. applications will compete for available funds with all other recommended applications . following initial peer review, recommended applications will receive a second level of review by the appropriate national advisory council on drug abuse. the following will be considered in making funding decisions:after the peer review of the application is completed, the pd/pi will be able to access his or her summary statement (written critique) via the era commons. refer to part 1 for dates for peer review, advisory council review, and earliest start date information regarding the disposition of applications is available in the nih grants policy statement.if the application is under consideration for funding, nih will request "just-in-time" information from the applicant as described in the nih grants policy statement. a formal notification in the form of a notice of award (noa) will be provided to the applicant organization for successful applications. the noa signed by the grants management officer is the authorizing document and will be sent via email to the grantee’s business official. awardees must comply with any funding restrictions described in section iv.5. funding restrictions. selection of an application for award is not an authorization to begin performance. any costs incurred before receipt of the noa are at the recipient's risk. these costs may be reimbursed only to the extent considered allowable pre-award costs. any application awarded in response to this foa will be subject to terms and conditions found on the award conditions and information for nih grants website. this includes any recent legislation and policy applicable to awards that is highlighted on this website.nida support beyond the initial five-year project period is not guaranteed and is dependent upon the availability of appropriated funds and success in competition for renewed support. if there is no further support, no phase-out funds will be provided. thus, the applicant institution must have plans in place to provide continued support to remaining scholars if funding from the nida is not available.individual awards are based on the application submitted to, and as approved by, the nih and are subject to the ic-specific terms and conditions identified in the noa.clinicaltrials.gov: if an award provides for one or more clinical trials. by law (title viii, section 801 of public law 110-85), the "responsible party" must register and submit results information for certain "applicable clinical trials" on the clinicaltrials.gov protocol registration and results system information website (https://register.clinicaltrials.gov). nih expects registration of all trials whether required under the law or not. for more information, see http://grants.nih.gov/clinicaltrials_fdaaa/institutional review board or independent ethics committee approval: grantee institutions must ensure that all protocols are reviewed by their irb or iec. to help ensure the safety of participants enrolled in nih-funded studies, the awardee must provide nih copies of documents related to all major changes in the status of ongoing protocols.data and safety monitoring requirements: the nih policy for data and safety monitoring requires oversight and monitoring of all nih-conducted or -supported human biomedical and behavioral intervention studies (clinical trials) to ensure the safety of participants and the validity and integrity of the data. further information concerning these requirements is found at http://grants.nih.gov/grants/policy/hs/data_safety.htm and in the application instructions (sf424 (r&r) and phs 398).investigational new drug or investigational device exemption requirements: consistent with federal regulations, clinical research projects involving the use of investigational therapeutics, vaccines, or other medical interventions (including licensed products and devices for a purpose other than that for which they were licensed) in humans under a research protocol must be performed under a food and drug administration (fda) investigational new drug (ind) or investigational device exemption (ide).all nih grant and cooperative agreement awards include the nih grants policy statement as part of the noa. for these terms of award, see the nih grants policy statement part ii: terms and conditions of nih grant awards, subpart a: general and part ii: terms and conditions of nih grant awards, subpart b: terms and conditions for specific types of grants, grantees, and activities. more information is provided at award conditions and information for nih grants.recipients of federal financial assistance (ffa) from hhs must administer their programs in compliance with federal civil rights laws that prohibit discrimination on the basis of race, color, national origin, disability, age and, in some circumstances, religion, conscience, and sex. this includes ensuring programs are accessible to persons with limited english proficiency. the hhs office for civil rights provides guidance on complying with civil rights laws enforced by hhs. please see https://www.hhs.gov/civil-rights/for-providers/provider-obligations/index.html and http://www.hhs.gov/ocr/civilrights/understanding/section1557/index.html.hhs recognizes that research projects are often limited in scope for many reasons that are nondiscriminatory, such as the principal investigator’s scientific interest, funding limitations, recruitment requirements, and other considerations. thus, criteria in research protocols that target or exclude certain populations are warranted where nondiscriminatory justifications establish that such criteria are appropriate with respect to the health or safety of the subjects, the scientific study design, or the purpose of the research. for additional guidance regarding how the provisions apply to nih grant programs, please contact the scientific/research contact that is identified in section vii under agency contacts of this foa.recipients of ffa must also administer their programs in compliance with applicable federal religious nondiscrimination laws and applicable federal conscience protection and associated anti-discrimination laws. collectively, these laws prohibit exclusion, adverse treatment, coercion, or other discrimination against persons or entities on the basis of their consciences, religious beliefs, or moral convictions. please see https://www.hhs.gov/conscience/conscience-protections/index.html and https://www.hhs.gov/conscience/religious-freedom/index.html.please contact the hhs office for civil rights for more information about obligations and prohibitions under federal civil rights laws at https://www.hhs.gov/ocr/about-us/contact-us/index.html or call 1-800-368-1019 or tdd 1-800-537-7697.in accordance with the statutory provisions contained in section 872 of the duncan hunter national defense authorization act of fiscal year 2009 (public law 110-417), nih awards will be subject to the federal awardee performance and integrity information system (fapiis) requirements. fapiis requires federal award making officials to review and consider information about an applicant in the designated integrity and performance system (currently fapiis) prior to making an award. an applicant, at its option, may review information in the designated integrity and performance systems accessible through fapiis and comment on any information about itself that a federal agency previously entered and is currently in fapiis. the federal awarding agency will consider any comments by the applicant, in addition to other information in fapiis, in making a judgement about the applicant’s integrity, business ethics, and record of performance under federal awards when completing the review of risk posed by applicants as described in 45 cfr part 75.205 “federal awarding agency review of risk posed by applicants.” this provision will apply to all nih grants and cooperative agreements except fellowships.awards made primarily for educational purposes are exempted from the phs invention requirements and thus invention reporting is not required, as described in the nih grants policy statement.not applicablewhen multiple years are involved, awardees will be required to submit the research performance progress report (rppr) annually. continuation support will not be provided until the required forms are submitted and accepted.failure by the grantee institution to submit required forms in a timely, complete, and accurate manner may result in an expenditure disallowance or a delay in any continuation funding for the award.the federal funding accountability and transparency act of 2006 (transparency act), includes a requirement for awardees of federal grants to report information about first-tier subawards and executive compensation under federal assistance awards issued in fy2011 or later. all awardees of applicable nih grants and cooperative agreements are required to report to the federal subaward reporting system (fsrs) available at www.fsrs.gov on all subawards over $25,000. see the nih grants policy statement for additional information on this reporting requirement.a final rppr, invention statement, and the expenditure data portion of the federal financial report are required for closeout of an award as described in the nih grants policy statement. evaluation results should be included as part of the final rppr.in accordance with the regulatory requirements provided at 45 cfr 75.113 and appendix xii to 45 cfr part 75, recipients that have currently active federal grants, cooperative agreements, and procurement contracts from all federal awarding agencies with a cumulative total value greater than $10,000,000 for any period of time during the period of performance of a federal award, must report and maintain the currency of information reported in the system for award management (sam) about civil, criminal, and administrative proceedings in connection with the award or performance of a federal award that reached final disposition within the most recent five-year period. the recipient must also make semiannual disclosures regarding such proceedings. proceedings information will be made publicly available in the designated integrity and performance system (currently fapiis). this is a statutory requirement under section 872 of public law 110-417, as amended (41 u.s.c. 2313). as required by section 3010 of public law 111-212, all information posted in the designated integrity and performance system on or after april 15, 2011, except past performance reviews required for federal procurement contracts, will be publicly available. full reporting requirements and procedures are found in appendix xii to 45 cfr part 75 – award term and conditions for recipient integrity and performance matters.in carrying out its stewardship of human resource-related programs, the nih may request information essential to an assessment of the effectiveness of this program from databases and from participants themselves. participants may be contacted after the completion of this award for periodic updates on various aspects of their employment history, publications, support from research grants or contracts, honors and awards, professional activities, and other information helpful in evaluating the impact of the program.the overall evaluation of the program will be based on metrics that will include, but are not limited to, the following:we encourage inquiries concerning this funding opportunity and welcome the opportunity to answer questions from potential applicants.era commons help desk (questions regarding assist, era commons, application errors and warnings, documenting system problems that threaten submission by the due date, and post-submission issues) finding help online: http://grants.nih.gov/support/ (preferred method of contact)telephone: 301-402-7469 or 866-504-9552 (toll free)general grants information (questions regarding application instructions, application processes, and nih grant resources) email: grantsinfo@nih.gov (preferred method of contact) telephone: 301-637-3015grants.gov customer support (questions regarding grants.gov registration and workspace) contact center telephone: 800-518-4726 email: support@grants.govkeisher highsmith, ph.d.national institute on drug abuse (nida) division of epidemiology, services and prevention research telephone: 301-402-1984 email: keisher.highsmith@nih.govann anderson, m.p.h., m.d. national institute on drug abuse (nida) division of therapeutics and medical consequences < br> telephone: 301-827-5916 email: aa135m@nih.govyu (woody) lin, m.d., ph.d. national institute on drug abuse (nida) division of neuroscience and behavior telephone: 301-435-1318 email: ylin1@mail.nih.govalbert avila, ph.d.national institute on drug abuse (nida)office of research training, diversity, and disparities (ortdd)telephone: 301.496.8804email: nida_training@nida.nih.govdharmendar rathore, ph.d.national institute on drug abuse (nida) telephone: 301.402.6965email: dharmendar.rathore@nih.govcarol aldersonnational institute on drug abuse (nida) telephone: 301-827-6685email: aldersoc@mail.nih.govrecently issued trans-nih policy notices may affect your application submission. a full list of policy notices published by nih is provided in the nih guide for grants and contracts. all awards are subject to the terms and conditions, cost principles, and other considerations described in the nih grants policy statement.awards are made under the authorization of sections 301 and 405 of the public health service act as amended (42 usc 241 and 284) and under federal regulations 42 cfr part 52 and 45 cfr part 75. weekly toc for this announcement nih funding opportunities and noticesnote: for help accessing pdf, rtf, ms word, excel, powerpoint, audio or video files, see help downloading files.