Maximizing Opportunities for Scientific and Academic Independent Careers (MOSAIC) Institutionally-Focused Research Education Award to Promote Diversity (UE5 - Clinical Trial Not Allowed)
https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/pa-files/PAR-21-277.html
national institutes of health (nih)national institute of general medical sciences (nigms) national heart, lung, and blood institute (nhlbi) national institute of allergy and infectious diseases (niaid) national institute of dental and craniofacial research (nidcr) national institute of mental health (nimh) national library of medicine (nlm) national center for complementary and integrative health (nccih) national institute on drug abuse (nida) all applications to this funding opportunity announcement should fall within the mission of the institutes/centers. the following nih offices may co-fund applications assigned to those institutes/centers. sexual and gender minority research office (sgmro) office of research on women's health (orwh) office of behavioral and social sciences research (obssr)national heart, lung, and blood institute (nhlbi)national institute of allergy and infectious diseases (niaid)national institute of dental and craniofacial research (nidcr)national institute of mental health (nimh)national library of medicine (nlm)national center for complementary and integrative health (nccih)national institute on drug abuse (nida)all applications to this funding opportunity announcement should fall within the mission of the institutes/centers. the following nih offices may co-fund applications assigned to those institutes/centers.sexual and gender minority research office (sgmro)office of research on women's health (orwh)office of behavioral and social sciences research (obssr)ue5 education projects - cooperative agreementsreissue of par-19-342see notices of special interest associated with this funding opportunitypar-21-271 - maximizing opportunities for scientific and academic independent careers (mosaic) postdoctoral career transition award to promote diversity (k99/r00 - independent clinical trial not allowed)par-21-272 - maximizing opportunities for scientific and academic independent careers (mosaic) postdoctoral career transition award to promote diversity (k99/r00 - independent clinical trial required)par-21-273 - maximizing opportunities for scientific and academic independent careers (mosaic) postdoctoral career transition award to promote diversity (k99/r00 - independent basic experimental studies with humans required (besh))only one application per institution is allowed as defined in section iii. 3. additional information on eligibility.93.859, 93.213, 93.837, 93.838, 93.839, 93.840, 93.233, 93.855, 93.121, 93.242, 93.879, 93.313, 93.279the nih research education program (r25) supports research education activities in the mission areas of the nih. the overarching goal of this nih mosaic ue5 program is to support educational activities that encourage individuals from diverse backgrounds, including those from groups underrepresented in the biomedical and behavioral sciences, to pursue further studies or careers in researchto accomplish the stated over-arching goal, this foa will support creative educational activities with a primary focus on:to accomplish the stated over-arching goal, this foa will support creative educational activities with a primary focus on:courses for skills development mentoring activitiesapplications are encouraged from organizations of biomedical researchers (e.g., scientific societies) with a membership of scientists conducting research within the mission areas of participating nih institutes and centers, experience serving as a centralized entity to enhance scientific communication and networking among scientists conducting research, an established record of providing professional development and networking activities for the next generation of biomedical researchers, and a demonstrated commitment to enhancing the diversity of the biomedical research workforce. the program provides support for well-designed courses for skills development and mentoring activities to prepare cohorts of postdoctoral and early-career faculty scholars supported by mosaic k99/r00 awards to transition into, succeed, and advance in independent, tenure-track or equivalent, research-intensive faculty careers. awardee organizations must provide career development and mentoring activities aligned with and appropriate for the disciplinary backgrounds of scholars supported through the mosaic k99/r00 program. areas of programmatic need will be indicated through notices of special interest (nosis) released annually by nih. applications that do not address the program areas of need specified in the nosi will be considered non-responsive and will not be reviewed.applications are encouraged from organizations of biomedical researchers (e.g., scientific societies) with a membership of scientists conducting research within the mission areas of participating nih institutes and centers, experience serving as a centralized entity to enhance scientific communication and networking among scientists conducting research, an established record of providing professional development and networking activities for the next generation of biomedical researchers, and a demonstrated commitment to enhancing the diversity of the biomedical research workforce.the program provides support for well-designed courses for skills development and mentoring activities to prepare cohorts of postdoctoral and early-career faculty scholars supported by mosaic k99/r00 awards to transition into, succeed, and advance in independent, tenure-track or equivalent, research-intensive faculty careers.awardee organizations must provide career development and mentoring activities aligned with and appropriate for the disciplinary backgrounds of scholars supported through the mosaic k99/r00 program. areas of programmatic need will be indicated through notices of special interest (nosis) released annually by nih. applications that do not address the program areas of need specified in the nosi will be considered non-responsive and will not be reviewed.not applicabledecember 14, 2021november 15, 2022november 15, 2023all applications are due by 5:00 pm local time of applicant organization. all types of non-aids applications allowed for this funding opportunity announcement are due on the listed date(s). applicants are encouraged to apply early to allow adequate time to make any corrections to errors found in the application during the submission process by the due date.all applications are due by 5:00 pm local time of applicant organization. all types of non-aids applications allowed for this funding opportunity announcement are due on the listed date(s).applicants are encouraged to apply early to allow adequate time to make any corrections to errors found in the application during the submission process by the due date.not applicablemarch 2022march 2023march 2024may 2022may 2023may 2024july 2022july 2023july 2024not applicableit is critical that applicants follow the instructions in the research (r) instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, except where instructed to do otherwise (in this foa or in a notice from nih guide for grants and contracts).conformance to all requirements (both in the application guide and the foa) is required and strictly enforced. applicants must read and follow all application instructions in the application guide as well as any program-specific instructions noted in section iv. when the program-specific instructions deviate from those in the application guide, follow the program-specific instructions.applications that do not comply with these instructions may be delayed or not accepted for review.there are several options available to submit your application through grants.gov to nih and department of health and human services partners. you must use one of these submission options to access the application forms for this opportunity.the nih research education program (r25) supports research educational activities that complement other formal training programs in the mission areas of the nih institutes and centers. the overarching goals of the nih r25 program are to: (1) complement and/or enhance the training of a workforce to meet the nation’s biomedical, behavioral and clinical research needs; (2) encourage individuals from diverse backgrounds, including those from groups underrepresented in the biomedical and behavioral sciences, to pursue further studies or careers in research; (3) help recruit individuals with specific specialty or disciplinary backgrounds to research careers in biomedical, behavioral and clinical sciences; and (4) foster a better understanding of biomedical, behavioral and clinical research and its implications.the overarching goal of the mosaic ue5 program is to support educational activities that encourage individuals from diverse backgrounds, for example those from groups underrepresented in the biomedical sciences, to pursue independent, tenure-track or equivalent, research-intensive faculty positions.to accomplish the stated overarching goal, this foa will support creative educational activities with a primary focus on courses for skills development and mentoring activities (as described below). the program provides support for well-designed courses for skills development and mentoring activities to prepare cohorts of postdoctoral and early-career faculty scholars supported by mosaic k99/r00 awards to transition into, succeed, and advance in independent, tenure-track or equivalent, research-intensive faculty careers.background informationthe national institutes of health (nih) recognizes the need to diversify the scientific workforce by enhancing the participation of individuals from groups identified as underrepresented in the biomedical, clinical, behavioral and social sciences (collectively termed "biomedical") research workforce. individuals from all backgrounds deserve an equitable opportunity to engage in the biomedical research enterprise, to pursue their scientific interests and further their careers. moreover, diversity at all levels — from the kinds of science to the regions in which it is conducted to the backgrounds of the people conducting it — is integral to scientific excellence and strengthens the research enterprise. research shows that diverse teams working together and capitalizing on innovative ideas and distinct perspectives outperform homogenous teams. scientists and trainees from diverse backgrounds and life experiences bring different perspectives, creativity, and individual interests to address complex scientific problems. there are many benefits that flow from a diverse nih-supported scientific workforce, including fostering scientific innovation, enhancing global competitiveness, contributing to robust learning environments, improving the quality of research, enhancing public trust, and increasing the likelihood that health disparities and the needs of populations that have been underserved are addressed in biomedical research. nih strives to ensure that future generations of researchers will be drawn from the entire pool of talented individuals, including groups underrepresented in biomedical research, who bring different aptitudes, perspectives, interests, and experiences to address complex scientific problems. nih seeks to enhance the diversity of the biomedical research workforce by supporting individuals from a variety of backgrounds at multiple training and career stages in a variety of institutions and educational settings across the country.need for the programpromoting diversity in the extramural scientific workforce is critical to the success of the nih mission and is consistent with the mandates of the 21st century cures act. while scientific workforce diversity supports and is integral to the nih mission, expanding the pool of early career academic investigators from nationally underrepresented backgrounds in the biomedical research workforce has remained an elusive goal (see policy supporting next generation researchers initiative). nih has a longstanding commitment to training the next generation of biomedical scientists and supporting training of students from diverse backgrounds, for example groups underrepresented in biomedical research, through a variety of fellowships, career development awards, and institutional training and student development programs. in spite of recent advances, individuals from certain groups and backgrounds remain underrepresented in the biomedical sciences research workforce as described in the notice of nih's interest in diversity. the severity of the underrepresentation of these groups increases throughout the training stages. for example, students from certain racial and ethnic groups, including black or african american, hispanic or latina/o/x, american indian or alaska native, native hawaiian or other pacific islander comprise ~38 percent of the college age population (census bureau data), but earn only ~22 percent of bachelor’s degrees and ~14 percent of ph.d. degrees in the life sciences (national center for science and engineering statistics). additionally, while the united states has seen a significant increase in the number of ph.d. degrees in the biomedical sciences earned by scientists from historically underrepresented racial and ethnic groups in the biomedical research workforce, corresponding increases in the ranks of the faculty in basic science departments (gibbs, et al., elife 2016; valantine, lund & gammie, cbe-life sciences education, 2016) or nih-funded investigators (hoppe et al, 2019; lauer, 2020) have not occured. similarly, women have earned a majority of biomedical ph.ds. since 2008 (nsf data), but only approximately 1/3 of nih-funded principal investigators are women (nih databook).nih has undertaken a number of efforts to facilitate the career transition of postdoctoral scientists from diverse groups into the professoriate including the institutional research and academic career development awards (iracda), research supplements to promote diversity in health-related research, and re-entry into biomedical research careers. additionally, the nih common fund supports the national research mentoring network (nrmn), a nationwide consortium of biomedical professionals and institutions collaborating to provide biomedical trainees from all backgrounds and at all levels with evidence-informed mentorship and professional development programming. these efforts have supported the development of highly trained biomedical scientists from diverse backgrounds who have the necessary knowledge and skills to pursue independent careers in the biomedical research workforce. nih also recognizes that efforts aimed at achieving scientific workforce diversity are hindered by organizational structures, systems, and policies that perpetuate exclusion and inequity based on race and gender. organizational structures, policies, practices, and social norms that perpetuate bias, prejudice, discrimination, and racism also limit the pace of scientific progress. therefore, there remains a compelling need to develop additional strategies to promote transitions to independent, research-intensive faculty positions for scientists from diverse backgrounds.program goalthe maximizing opportunities for scientific and academic independent careers (mosaic) program is designed to facilitate the transition of promising postdoctoral researchers from diverse backgrounds, for example individuals from groups underrepresented in the biomedical research workforce at the faculty level, into independent, research-intensive faculty careers. the program has two components: an institutionally-focused research education cooperative agreement (ue5) and postdoctoral career transition award (k99/r00) to enhance diversity (see companion foas in the overview section).the overarching goal of the mosaic ue5 program is to support educational activities that encourage individuals from diverse backgrounds, for example those from groups underrepresented in the biomedical sciences, to pursue independent, tenure-track or equivalent research-intensive faculty positions.specifically, the mosaic ue5 program is designed to equip mosaic k99/r00 scholars with professional skills and provide them with the appropriate mentoring and professional networks to allow them to transition into, advance, and succeed in independent, tenure-track or equivalent research-intensive faculty careers.to accomplish the stated overarching goal, this foa will support creative educational activities with a primary focus on:programmatic approachthe mosaic research education awards are intended to fund scientific organizations that include nih-funded investigators conducting research in the mission areas of the participating nih institutes and centers in their membership (e.g., scientific societies) to:program considerationsnih intends to fund applications that propose feasible and effective research education activities that will enhance diversity in the biomedical research workforce. applicants are expected to identify objectives (i.e., specific, measurable, and obtainable outcomes the program intends to achieve) and to develop plans to implement evidence-informed skills development and mentoring activities that are grounded in the literature and from evaluations of existing relevant programs. program objectives must align with the overarching goal of the mosaic initiative to enhance diversity of independent nih investigators with research-intensive faculty positions. funded programs are expected to provide evidence of accomplishing the objectives in progress reports and upon renewal applications, to make outcomes publicly available, and to disseminate successful mentoring and skills development practices to the broader community.the participants in mosaic research education activities will be scholars selected through the mosaic k99/r00 program. ue5 recipients are not responsible for the selection of the mosaic k99/r00 scholars - this will be managed by an nih competitive peer review process as described in the mosaic k99/r00 foas (see companion foas in the overview section). the funded ue5 awardees will develop cohorts of mosaic k99/r00 scholars assigned by nih staff (see below in the cooperative agreement section). funded ue5 organizations are expected to provide professional development and enhance the professional networks of cohorts of mosaic k99/r00 scholars conducting research in areas specific to the mission(s) of participating nih institute(s) and center(s). areas of programmatic need will be indicated through notices of special interest (nosis) released annually by nih. the specific nih institute and center scientific areas supported through this foa include:nigms supports basic research that increases our understanding of biological processes and lays the foundation for advances in disease diagnosis, treatment, and prevention. nigms' research mission is aimed at understanding the principles, mechanisms, and processes that underlie living systems. it also supports research in specific clinical areas that affect multiple organs, particularly those related to injury and critical illness: sepsis, trauma, burn, wound healing, anesthesiology, and clinical pharmacology. for more information see https://www.nigms.nih.gov/about/overview/pages/default.aspx.nhlbi provides global leadership for a research, research training, and education program to promote the prevention and treatment of heart, lung, blood, and sleep diseases and enhance the health of all individuals so that they can live longer and more fulfilling lives. for more information, see the nhlbi strategic plan.niaid conducts and supports basic and applied research to better understand, treat, and ultimately prevent infectious, immunologic, and allergic diseases. for more information, see: https://www.niaid.nih.gov/about/mission-planning-overviewnidcr supports basic, translational, and clinical research in dental, oral, and craniofacial health and disease. program areas include oral microbiota and bacterial disease; oral opportunistic pathogens and viral disease; salivary biology and immunology; oral and salivary gland cancers; neuroscience of orofacial pain and temporomandibular disorders; mineralized tissue physiology; dental materials and biomaterials; tissue engineering and regenerative medicine; genetics/genomics; developmental biology; data science; epidemiology; hiv/aids and oral health; oral health disparities and inequities; and mechanisms in the science of behavior change.nimh has a mission to transform the understanding and treatment of mental illnesses through basic and clinical research, paving the way for prevention, recovery, and cure. applications considered for funding by the nimh must fall within the areas of priority detailed in the nimh strategic plan and the nimh strategic research priorities.nida: nida will support applications related to addiction sciences, including, but not limited to: cellular and molecular neuroscience, neuroimaging, genetics, medication and treatment development, development of new and improved strategies to prevent substance use and its consequences, neuroimmune signaling, neuropathology in brain systems, cognitive processes, population neuroscience, hiv and drugs of abuse (including basic discovery science research as well as applied research on delivery of hiv and substance use prevention and treatment services to persons who use drugs), medication development, epidemiology, identifying the biological, environmental, behavioral, and social causes and consequences of substance use and addiction across the lifespan, and implementation science, including secondary data analysis. in all these and related areas of addiction sciences research, nida encourages an emphasis on understanding and addressing health disparities which are experienced by vulnerable populations. the nida seeks applications that will address questions relevant to the nida mission, supports research across nida's portfolio, and aligns with the nida's strategic vision. please refer to the nida website for more details on the research priorities of the nida.nlm is the world’s largest biomedical library and a leader in research in computational health informatics. nlm plays a pivotal role in translating biomedical research into practice. nlm’s research and information services support scientific discovery, health care, and public health. nlm pioneers new ways to make biomedical data and information more accessible; builds tools for better data management and personal health; and helps create a more diverse and data-skilled workforce. nlm enables researchers, clinicians, and the public to use the vast wealth of biomedical data to improve health. for more see: https://www.nlm.nih.gov/nccih has a mission to determine, through rigorous scientific investigation, the usefulness and safety of complementary health approaches, and their roles in improving health and healthcare. nccih will accept applications for research projects in areas within the center’s mission that are well-aligned with our strategic priorities (https://www.nccih.nih.gov/about/strategic-plans-and-reports). studies may range from basic, through translational, epidemiological, health services, and other human subjects research.orwh has a mission to improve the health of women. orwh is part of the office of the director of nih and works in partnership with the 27 nih institutes and ensures that research conducted and supported by the nih addresses issues regarding women's health. orwh works to stimulate and encourage basic and clinical research on the role of sex and gender in health and disease. orwh promotes training and career development of a diverse biomedical research workforce to advance science for the health of women. orwh also develops and supports initiatives to recruit, retain, and advance women in biomedical careers; programs that support both women and men in women’s health and sex differences research careers. orwh is interested in supporting applications that fulfill goal 1 and goal 4 of the nih strategic plan for women's health and sex differences research which can be found at: https://orwh.od.nih.gov/sites/orwh/files/docs/orwh_strategic_plan_2019_508c_0.pdf.funded mosaic research education activities should address the career needs of scholars in both the mentored postdoctoral research phase (k99), and independent research phase (r00). activities should synergize with and supplement, but not duplicate, career development activities mosaic scholars participate in as part of their k99/r00 awards. program activities should build upon the strengths and assets of mosaic k99/r00 scholars and should not reflect deficit-models (i.e., those that focus primarily on remediation of perceived weaknesses) of career development.research education programs may complement ongoing research training and education activities occurring at the applicant organization, but the proposed educational experiences must be distinct from those training and education programs currently receiving federal support.applications not responsive to this foanih will only accept applications that propose career development and mentoring activities aligned with the disciplinary backgrounds of scholars supported through the mosaic k99/r00 program. areas of programmatic need will be indicated through < notices of special interest (nosis) released annually by nih. applications that do not address the program areas of need specified in the nosi will be considered non-responsive and will not be reviewed. applicants should consult the current nosi listed in the “related notices” section above for responsive topics.see section viii. other information for award authorities and regulations.cooperative agreement: a support mechanism used when there will be substantial federal scientific or programmatic involvement. substantial involvement means that, after award, nih scientific or program staff will assist, guide, coordinate, or participate in project activities. see section vi.2 for additional information about the substantial involvement for this foa.the oer glossary and the sf424 (r&r) application guide provide details on these application types. only those application types listed here are allowed for this foa.not allowed: only accepting applications that do not propose clinical trial(s).need help determining whether you are doing a clinical trial?need help determining whether you are doing a clinical trial?the number of awards is contingent upon nih appropriations and the submission of a sufficient number of meritorious applications responsive to programmatic needs.although the size of award may vary with the scope of the research education program proposed and there are no specific budget limitations, average award size is expected to be $250,000 in direct costs per year. the requested direct costs must be reasonable, well documented, fully justified and commensurate with the scope of the proposed program.award budgets should reflect the fact that the number of mosaic scholars is expected to grow through time. each ue5 recipient will be assigned a cohort of approximately five mosaic scholars each year. the scholars are expected to participate in the ue5 activities for the entirety of their k99 and r00 awards. thus, it is expected that each ue5 will grow to support 25 scholars by the fifth year of the award.the project period may not exceed 5 years.individuals designing, directing, and implementing the research education program may request salary and fringe benefits appropriate for the person months devoted to the program. salaries requested may not exceed the levels commensurate with the institution's policy for similar positions and may not exceed the congressionally mandated cap.program coordinators are allowed as long as their role is clearly defined and significantly different from the roles of the pd(s)/pi(s).program coordinators are allowed as long as their role is clearly defined and significantly different from the roles of the pd(s)/pi(s).participants (i.e., mosaic scholars participating in the research education activities) may be paid if specifically required for the proposed research education program and sufficiently justified (e.g., reimbursement for travel to mosaic associated meetings). however, reimbursement of any participants costs applies only to those participants who are not federal employees.participant costs must be itemized in the proposed budget.nih mosaic k99/r00 scholars are expected to receive educational experiences supported by an ue5 program, as participants, but may not receive salary or stipend supplementation from the ue5 program.funds may be requested for the travel of mosaic scholars to ue5 activities. travel costs may not exceed coach class fares. in all cases, u.s. flag carriers must be used where possible.per diem costs for meals and lodging for participants may be requested and will be limited to the days of attendance at the meeting, conference, workshop, or other planned activity plus the actual travel time to and from the activity location. where meals and/or lodging are furnished without charge or at a nominal cost, such as part of the registration fee, an appropriate deduction must be made from the authorized per diem.consultant costs, equipment, supplies, travel for key persons (e.g., the mentors of mosaic scholars, invited speakers participating in the research education activities, etc.), and other program-related expenses may be included in the proposed budget. these expenses must be justified as specifically required by the proposed program and must not duplicate items generally available at the applicant institution.limited program evaluation costs are allowed up to a maximum of 5% of direct costs per year for the 5-year project period. this includes salaries for evaluation consultants, if any. scientific society membership fees for mosaic k99/r00 scholars or mentors are unallowable costs.limited program evaluation costs are allowed up to a maximum of 5% of direct costs per year for the 5-year project period. this includes salaries for evaluation consultants, if any.scientific society membership fees for mosaic k99/r00 scholars or mentors are unallowable costs.indirect costs (also known as facilities & administrative [f&a] costs) are reimbursed at 8% of modified total direct costs (exclusive of tuition and fees and expenditures for equipment, and consortium costs in excess of $25,000), rather than on the basis of a negotiated rate agreement.nih grants policies as described in the nih grants policy statement will apply to the applications submitted and awards made from this foa.nonprofits other than institutions of higher educationapplications are encouraged from organizations (1) composed of biomedical researchers (e.g., scientific societies) with a membership of scientists conducting research within the areas of program need specified in the notice of special interest, and that include members with active research project grants in these areas of program need (see nih reporter); (2) with experience serving as a centralized entity to enhance scientific communication and networking among scientists conducting research; (3) with an established record of providing professional development and networking activities for the next generation of biomedical researchers; (4) with a demonstrated commitment to enhancing the diversity of the biomedical research workforce, for example, individuals from underrepresented groups; and (5) with the resources to support the proposed program, e.g., the provision of adequate staff, facilities, and educational capacity.multiple organizations can partner for a mosaic ue5 application, with one organization serving as primary performance site location. if multiple organizations partner for an ue5 application, follow all instructions for consortium/contractual arrangements in the sf424 (r&r) application guide. organizations with existing federally funded programs may apply for a mosaic ue5 research education grant provided that the proposed educational experiences are distinct from those training programs already receiving federal support.the sponsoring institution must assure support for the proposed program. appropriate institutional commitment to the program includes the provision of adequate staff, facilities, and educational resources that can contribute to the planned program.non-domestic (non-u.s.) entities (foreign institutions) are not eligible to applynon-domestic (non-u.s.) components of u.s. organizations are not eligible to apply.foreign components, as defined in the nih grants policy statement, are not allowed.applicant organizationsapplicant organizations must complete and maintain the following registrations as described in the sf 424 (r&r) application guide to be eligible to apply for or receive an award. all registrations must be completed prior to the application being submitted. registration can take 6 weeks or more, so applicants should begin the registration process as soon as possible. the nih policy on late submission of grant applications states that failure to complete registrations in advance of a due date is not a valid reason for a late submission.program directors/principal investigators (pd(s)/pi(s))all pd(s)/pi(s) must have an era commons account. pd(s)/pi(s) should work with their organizational officials to either create a new account or to affiliate their existing account with the applicant organization in era commons. if the pd/pi is also the organizational signing official, they must have two distinct era commons accounts, one for each role. obtaining an era commons account can take up to 2 weeks.any individual(s) with the skills, knowledge, and resources necessary to carry out the proposed research as the program director(s)/principal investigator(s) (pd(s)/pi(s)) is invited to work with his/her organization to develop an application for support. individuals from diverse backgrounds, including underrepresented racial and ethnic groups, individuals with disabilities, and women are always encouraged to apply for nih support.for institutions/organizations proposing multiple pds/pis, visit the multiple program director/principal investigator policy and submission details in the senior/key person profile (expanded) component of the sf424 (r&r) application guide.pd(s)/pi(s) are expected to be full-time employees of the applicant organization. the pd(s)/pi(s) should have appropriate professional experience in the scientific area in which the application is targeted and be capable of providing both administrative and training leadership to the development and implementation of the proposed program. the pd/pi will be expected to monitor and assess the program and submit all documents and reports as required.nih encourages multiple pds/pis, particularly when each brings a unique perspective and skill set that will enhance the research education program. the pd/pi team should consider including individuals with experience in areas such as biomedical research, program evaluation, mentoring, and career development and advancement for early-career scientists.while a faculty member who is a full-time employee of an academic institution cannot serve as a pd/pi, this individual can serve as a member of key personnel (e.g., co-investigator or collaborator).this foa does not require cost sharing as defined in the nih grants policy statement.number of applicationsonly one application per organization having a unique entity identifier, such as duns number or nih ipf number, is allowed.the nih will not accept duplicate or highly overlapping applications under review at the same time. this means that the nih will not accept:program facultyresearchers from diverse backgrounds, for example individuals from underrepresented racial and ethnic groups, persons with disabilities, and women are encouraged to participate as preceptors/mentors. mentors should have research expertise and professional experience relevant to the proposed program, for example a record of independent research funding and career progression in a research-intensive faculty career. mentors must be committed to continue their involvement throughout the total period of the mentee’s participation in this award.participantsscholars supported by nih mosaic k99/r00 awards are the primary participants for ue5 programs supported through this foa. mosaic k99/r00 scholars will be selected by a competitive peer review process managed by the nih (as described in the companion foas in the overview section) and be assigned to ue5 recipients up to three times per year (i.e., after each advisory council round).unless strongly justified on the basis of exceptional relevance to nih, research education programs should be used primarily for the education of u.s. citizens and permanent residents. individuals who are not u.s. citizens and permanent residents may be allowed to participate in the ue5 research education program only with prior approval from nih.the application forms package specific to this opportunity must be accessed through assist, grants.gov workspace or an institutional system-to-system solution. links to apply using assist or grants.gov workspace are available in part 1 of this foa. see your administrative office for instructions if you plan to use an institutional system-to-system solution.it is critical that applicants follow the instructions in the research (r) instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide except where instructed in this funding opportunity announcement to do otherwise. conformance to the requirements in the application guide is required and strictly enforced. applications that are out of compliance with these instructions will not be reviewed.note: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023 a data management and sharing plan is not applicable for this foa.the following section supplements the instructions found in the sf424 (r&r) application guide and should be used for preparing an application to this foa.follow all instructions provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.follow all instructions provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.follow all instructions provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide with the following additional modifications:facilities & other resources. describe the educational environment, including the facilities, laboratories, participating departments, computer services, and any other resources to be used in the development and implementation of the proposed program. list all thematically related sources of support for research training and education following the format for current and pending support.other attachments. an advisory committee is a required component of this research education program. applicants must provide a plan for the appointment of an advisory committee to monitor progress and relevance of the research education program. the composition, roles, responsibilities, and desired expertise of committee members, frequency of committee meetings, and other relevant information should be included. describe how the advisory committee will evaluate the overall effectiveness of the program. proposed advisory committee members should be named in the application if they have been invited to participate at the time the application is submitted. please name your file “advisory_committee.pdf”applications lacking an advisory committee attachment will not be reviewed.the filename provided for each “other attachment” will be the name used for the bookmark in the electronic application in era commons.follow all instructions provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.follow all instructions provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide with the following additional modifications:follow all instructions provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed, with the following additional instructions:research strategythe research strategy section must be used to upload the research education program plan, which must include the following components described below:research education program planproposed research education programwhile the proposed research education program may complement ongoing research training and education occurring at the applicant organization, the proposed educational experiences must be distinct from those research training and research education programs currently receiving federal support. when research training programs are on-going in the same institution, the applicant organization should clearly distinguish between the activities in the proposed research education program and the research training supported by the training program.applicants are encouraged to review relevant data/report resources (e.g., at https://extramural-diversity.nih.gov/diversity-reports) when preparing the application. each application must describe the rationale, goals and measurable objectives of activities proposed. the application must describe the short-, medium-, and long-term goals for participants that the activities are designed to address and how these outcomes will be measured (see the evaluation plan section below). applicants are strongly encouraged to consult individuals with evaluation experience from the outset of research education program planning. the application must describe how the proposed activities will synergize with the mosaic scholars' k99/r00 career development plans and will address the needs of scholars in both the mentored postdoctoral research phase (k99) and the independent research phase (r00). program activities should reflect a strengths- or assets-based model of career development rather than a deficit remediation approach. applications should include a description of the following areas:applicants are invited to propose additional innovative activities to achieve the goals of the mosaic program. applicants should directly address how the set of activities will achieve the goals of the mosaic program. describe the rationale underlying the balance of effort and resources dedicated to each activity, how the proposed activities integrate, and the objective indicators that can measure the effectiveness of the program and its activities.applicants seeking to build on activities previously supported by other federal grant mechanism (e.g., t36, r13, r25 ipert) should describe in detail the progress accomplished and results of the evaluations performed to determine if the originally proposed goals and measurable objectives have been accomplished. applicants must describe new elements that are intended to expand, enhance or refocus previously supported activities to specifically address the goals of the mosaic program.program director/principal investigator.the pd(s)/pi(s) should have a demonstrated commitment to training the next generation of the biomedical research workforce, and involvement in efforts to enhance diversity. as applicable, describe the experience of the pd(s)/pi(s) in efforts to enhance diversity and promote inclusive environments. describe any training the pd(s)/pi(s) have received or will receive on how to effectively mentor individuals from diverse backgrounds.program faculty. the mosaic research education program should recruit academic biomedical researchers to provide the scholars with additional mentors. the program is encouraged to recruit mosaic program faculty who are are researchers from diverse backgrounds, e.g., individuals from underrepresented racial and ethnic groups, individuals from disadvantaged backgrounds, persons with disabilities, and women. faculty should have research expertise and experience relevant to the proposed program and demonstrate a history of, or the potential for, their intended roles. describe how the program will build a diverse team of participating faculty to help scholars gain access to potential role models within the program and to enhance the excellence of the research education program. in this section, applicants should synthesize and expand on the material presented in the biosketches. the application should address how the participating faculty will receive training on how to effectively mentor individuals from diverse backgrounds.program participants. describe the characteristics of mosaic k99/r00 scholars (e.g., scientific background) who would benefit most from the proposed research education activities.recruitment plan to enhance diversity. fostering diversity in the scientific research workforce is a key component of the nih strategy to identify, develop, support and maintain the quality of our scientific human capital. every facet of the united states scientific research enterprise—from basic laboratory research to clinical and translational research to policy formation–requires rigor, creativity and a wide range of skill sets and viewpoints. nih’s ability to help ensure that the nation remains a global leader in scientific discovery and innovation is dependent upon a pool of highly talented scientists from diverse backgrounds, including individuals from underrepresented groups who will help to further nih's mission (see notice of nih’s interest in diversity).all applications must include a description of plans to recruit prospective program faculty from diverse backgrounds (e.g., those underrepresented in the biomedical sciences) to help scholars gain access to potential role models within the program and to enhance the excellence of the research education program.applications lacking a recruitment plan to enhance diversity will not be reviewed.plan for instruction in methods for enhancing reproducibility. applicants must provide a plan for instruction in methods for enhancing reproducibility through rigor and transparency. the plan should describe how the program will reinforce the principles important for enhancing research reproducibility for example, critical evaluation of foundational research underlying a project, rigorous experimental design and data interpretation, consideration of relevant biological variables such as sex, authentication of key biological and/or chemical resources, data and material sharing, record keeping, and transparency in reporting. the plan should be appropriate and reasonable for the nature and duration of the proposed activities. applicants are encouraged to consult the nigms clearinghouse for training modules to enhance data reproducibility and other resources when developing the plans.applications lacking a plan for instruction in methods for enhancing reproducibility will not be reviewed.plan for instruction in the responsible conduct of research. applicants must provide a plan in the responsible conduct of research (rcr). examples of potential topics may include conflict of interest, authorship, data management, human subjects and animal use, laboratory safety, research misconduct, research ethics, and sexual harassment. the plan should be appropriate and reasonable for the nature and duration of the proposed activities. explain how the teaching of rcr principles synergizes with elements of the activities designed to enhance the participants’ ability to conduct rigorous and reproducible research.applications lacking a plan for instruction in responsible conduct of research will not be reviewed.evaluation plan. applications must include a plan for evaluating the activities supported by the mosaic research education award and the extent to which the measurable objectives will be accomplished. therefore, a mosaic application must include measurable objectives for the proposed activities (as described in the proposed research education program section). the evaluation plan must explain how each outcome(s) will be measured. the application must specify baseline metrics, as well as measures to gauge the short-, medium-, and long-term success of the research education award in achieving its objectives.the metrics are expected to move beyond participant satisfaction, self-reporting of perceived skills gained, or self-reporting of effectiveness. programs are encouraged, when appropriate, to measure psychosocial indicators of progress (e.g., science identity, a sense of belonging in the research community, self-efficacy in navigating the academic job search or first year as an independent investigator, etc.); however, these indicators should be linked to measurable outcomes (e.g., academic positions; career advancement, peer-reviewed publications; scientific presentations; honors/awards; leadership positions; external grant funding).applicants are encouraged to develop a participant tracking system for follow-up with program participants. the tracking system may include but is not limited to the following metrics: career outcomes; research experiences; peer-reviewed publications; scientific presentations; honors/awards; leadership positions in current institution and/or professional organization as a result of mosaic; and, additional training and/or mentoring as a result of mosaic. wherever appropriate, applicants are encouraged to obtain feedback from participants to help identify program strengths and weaknesses; to provide suggestions for improvements on program administration; to indicate the likelihood of utilizing the knowledge and/or skills gained for future education and career development; to provide suggestions for future programming to improve program effectiveness; and to describe any programmatic changes developed from such feedback. as mentioned above, applicants are strongly encouraged to develop the programmatic activities and evaluation plan early in the planning phases and in consultation with an experienced evaluator. individuals within the organization with evaluation experience are encouraged to serve as the consultants.applications lacking an evaluation plan will not be reviewed.dissemination plan. a specific plan must be provided to disseminate nationally any findings resulting from or materials developed under the auspices of the research education program, e.g., sharing course curricula and related materials via web postings, presentations at scientific meetings, or workshops.applications lacking a dissemination plan will not be reviewed.consortium/contractual arrangementsif multiple organizations are collaborating to support a single mosaic ue5 application, arrangements between the applicant organization and the consortium organization(s) should be included in the application as described in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.letters of supportorganizational commitment. (three page maximum) applications must include a letter from a senior administration official at the applicant organization. this letter should be a signed letter on organizational letterhead, and it should describe the applicant organization’s commitment to the planned program. the letter should provide evidence of commitment to the research education program. appropriate commitment should include the provision of adequate staff, facilities, and educational resources that can contribute to the planned research education program. the letter should describe how the organization ensures that proper policies, procedures, and oversight are in place to prevent discriminatory harassment and other practices; responds appropriately to allegations of discriminatory practices, including any required notifications to the department of health and human services office of civil rights (see not-od-15-152); and adopts and follows institutional procedure for requesting nih prior approval of a change in the status of the program director/principal investigator (pd/pi) or other senior/key personnel if administrative or disciplinary action is taken that impacts the ability of the pd/pi or other key personnel to continue his/her role on the nih award described in the research education program application (also see not-od-18-172 regarding policy on change in pd/pi status).if the applicant proposes a multi-site research education project, the applicant organization must document the requisite administrative/technical capacity to support the management of a proposed collaborative multisite project. all collaborative arrangements must be clearly described, and the applicant must provide assurances it is aware of nih consortium policy and prepared to establish the necessary agreements.applications lacking an organizational commitment letter will not be reviewed.resource sharing plansindividuals are required to comply with the instructions for the resource sharing plans as provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.when relevant, applications are expected to include a software dissemination plan if support for development, maintenance, or enhancement of software is requested in the application.there is no prescribed single license for software produced. however, the software dissemination plan should address, as appropriate, the following goals:appendixonly limited appendix materials are allowed. follow the instructions for the appendix as described in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.phs human subjects and clinical trials informationwhen involving human subjects research, clinical research, and/or nih-defined clinical trials (and when applicable, clinical trials research experience) follow all instructions for the phs human subjects and clinical trials information form in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, with the following additional instructions:if you answered “yes” to the question “are human subjects involved?” on the r&r other project information form, you must include at least one human subjects study record using the study record: phs human subjects and clinical trials information form or delayed onset study record.study record: phs human subjects and clinical trials informationall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.note: delayed onset does not apply to a study that can be described but will not start immediately (i.e., delayed start). all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.see part 1. section iii.1 for information regarding the requirement for obtaining a unique entity identifier and for completing and maintaining active registrations in system for award management (sam), nato commercial and government entity (ncage) code (if applicable), era commons, and grants.gov.part i. overview information contains information about key dates and times. applicants are encouraged to submit applications before the due date to ensure they have time to make any application corrections that might be necessary for successful submission. when a submission date falls on a weekend or federal holiday, the application deadline is automatically extended to the next business day.organizations must submit applications to grants.gov (the online portal to find and apply for grants across all federal agencies). applicants must then complete the submission process by tracking the status of the application in the era commons, nih’s electronic system for grants administration. nih and grants.gov systems check the application against many of the application instructions upon submission. errors must be corrected and a changed/corrected application must be submitted to grants.gov on or before the application due date and time. if a changed/corrected application is submitted after the deadline, the application will be considered late. applications that miss the due date and time are subjected to the nih policy on late application submission.applicants are responsible for viewing their application before the due date in the era commons to ensure accurate and successful submission.information on the submission process and a definition of on-time submission are provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.this initiative is not subject to intergovernmental review.all nih awards are subject to the terms and conditions, cost principles, and other considerations described in the nih grants policy statement .pre-award costs are allowable only as described in the nih grants policy statement.applications must be submitted electronically following the instructions described in the sf424 (r&r) application guide. paper applications will not be accepted.applicants must complete all required registrations before the application due date. section iii. eligibility information contains information about registration.for assistance with your electronic application or for more information on the electronic submission process, visit how to apply – application guide. if you encounter a system issue beyond your control that threatens your ability to complete the submission process on-time, you must follow the dealing with system issues guidance. for assistance with application submission, contact the application submission contacts in section vii.important reminders:all pd(s)/pi(s) must include their era commons id in the credential field of the senior/key person profile component of the sf424(r&r) application package. failure to register in the commons and to include a valid pd/pi commons id in the credential field will prevent the successful submission of an electronic application to nih.the applicant organization must ensure that the duns number it provides on the application is the same number used in the organization’s profile in the era commons and for the system for award management (sam). additional information may be found in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.see more tips for avoiding common errors.upon receipt, applications will be evaluated for completeness and compliance with application instructions by the center for scientific review, nih and responsiveness by components of participating organizations, nih. applications that are incomplete, non-compliant, or non-responsive will not be reviewed.requests of $500,000 or more for direct costs in any yearapplicants requesting $500,000 or more in direct costs (less consortium f&a) in any year are required to contact a scientific/ research contact at least 6 weeks before submitting the application. the policy on the acceptance for review of unsolicited applications that request $500,000 or more in direct costs as described in the sf424 (r&r) application guide is applicable to this foa.applicants are required to follow the instructions for post-submission materials, as described in the policy.only the review criteria described below will be considered in the review process. applications submitted to the nih in support of the nih mission are evaluated for scientific and technical merit through the nih peer review system.for this foa, note the following: the goal of the mosaic ue5 program is to support educational activities for mosaic k99/r00 scholars that will equip them with the professional skills, and provide them with the appropriate mentoring and professional networks to transition into, advance, and succeed in independent, tenure-track or equivalent, research-intensive faculty careers.reviewers will provide an overall impact score to reflect their assessment of the likelihood for the project to strongly advance research education by fulfilling the goal of this research education program, in consideration of the following review criteria and additional review criteria, as applicable for the project proposed.reviewers will consider each of the review criteria below in the determination of scientific merit, and give a separate score for each. an application does not need to be strong in all categories to be judged likely to have major scientific impact.significancedoes the proposed program address a key audience and an important aspect or important need in research education? is there convincing evidence in the application that the proposed ue5 program will significantly advance the stated goals of the overall mosaic program?specific to this foa: how likely is the proposed research education program to provide mosaic k99/r00 scholars opportunities for skills development and enhanced mentoring and professional networks to facilitate their transition into, and success in, independent research-intensive faculty careers?investigator(s)is/are the pd/pi(s) capable of providing both administrative and educational leadership to the development and implementation of the proposed program? is there evidence that an appropriate level of effort will be devoted by the program leadership to ensure the program's intended goal is accomplished? if applicable, is there evidence that the participating faculty have experience in mentoring students and teaching science? if applicable, are the faculty good role models for the participants by nature of their scientific accomplishments? if the project is collaborative or multi-pd/pi, do the investigators have complementary and integrated expertise; are their leadership approach, governance and organizational structure appropriate for the project?specific to this foa: does/do the pd(s)/pi(s) have a track record of involvement in, or leadership of, successful efforts to enhance diversity within the biomedical research workforce? is there a robust plan to ensure participating faculty come from diverse backgrounds?innovationtaking into consideration the nature of the proposed research education program, does the applicant make a strong case for this program effectively reaching an audience in need of the program’s offerings? where appropriate, is the proposed program developing or utilizing innovative approaches and latest best practices to improve the knowledge and/or skills of the intended audience?approachdoes the proposed program clearly state its goals and objectives, including the educational level of the audience to be reached, the content to be conveyed, and the intended outcome? is there evidence that the program is based on a sound rationale, as well as sound educational concepts and principles? is the plan for evaluation sound and likely to provide information on the effectiveness of the program? if the proposed program will recruit participants, are the planned recruitment, retention, and follow-up (if applicable) activities adequate to ensure a highly qualified participant pool?specific for this foa: is there a clear and convincing plan to ensure robust and appropriate professional development and mentoring for mosaic k99/r00 scholars? does the organization have a sufficient membership of scientists in the areas of programmatic need (as specified in the notice of special interest for the application receipt date) to assemble cohorts from the funded mosaic k99/r00 scholars and provide them with robust and appropriate mentoring and career development activities? does the research education plan address how the proposed activities will synergize with and not duplicate the mosaic scholars' career development plans and address their professional needs in both the mentored postdoctoral (k99) and independent research (r00) phases of their award? is there a clear and convincing plan to provide activities that will enhance community among the mosaic scholars' and strengthen their cohorts? are there robust plans to leverage existing organizational structures (e.g., annual scientific meetings) to enhance the career development of mosaic scholars? are the plans to engage institutional leaders at institutions where mosaic scholars conduct research likely to improve the mentoring and career development of mosaic scholars, as well as other early-career researchers? is there sufficient consideration of potential problems that may be encountered and an appropriate description of alternative strategies that could be employed?environmentwill the scientific and educational environment of the proposed program contribute to its intended goals? is there a plan to take advantage of this environment to enhance the educational value of the program? is there tangible evidence of organizational commitment? is there evidence that the faculty have sufficient organizational support to create a sound educational environment for the participants? where appropriate, is there evidence of collaboration and buy-in among participating programs, departments, organizations, and institutions?specific for this foa: do outcomes from any relevant programs currently or previously run by the organization indicate the environment can successfully achieve the goals of mosaic? does the organization have a sufficiently broad and appropriate scientific scope, and a large and diverse enough member base to successfully support the mosaic program?as applicable for the project proposed, reviewers will evaluate the following additional items while determining scientific and technical merit, and in providing an overall impact score, but will not give separate scores for these items.recruitment plan to enhance diversityreviewers will examine the strategies to be used in the recruitment of prospective faculty from underrepresented groups. the review panel’s evaluation will be included in the summary statement. plans will be rated as acceptable or unacceptable, and the summary statement will provide the consensus of the review committee.training in methods for enhancing reproducibilitydoes the instruction in methods for enhancing reproducibility plan describe how participants will be instructed in principles important for enhancing research reproducibility and transparency in reporting? are the components sufficiently well integrated into the overall program? the plan will be rated as acceptable or unacceptable, and the summary statement will provide the consensus of the review committee.training in the responsible conduct of researchtaking into account the specific characteristics of the proposed research education program, the level of participant experience, the reviewers will evaluate the adequacy of the proposed rcr training. plans will be rated as acceptable or unacceptable, and the summary statement will provide the consensus of the review committee.protections for human subjectsgenerally not applicable. reviewers should bring any concerns to the attention of the scientific review officer.inclusion of women, minorities, and individuals across the lifespangenerally not applicable. reviewers should bring any concerns to the attention of the scientific review officer.vertebrate animalsgenerally not applicable. reviewers should bring any concerns to the attention of the scientific review officer.biohazardsgenerally not applicable. reviewers should bring any concerns to the attention of the scientific review officer.resubmissionsnot applicablerevisionsrevisionsnot applicablerenewalsrenewalsnot applicablenote: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023, the data sharing plan and genomic data sharing plan (gds) as part of the resource sharing plan will not be evaluated at time of review, and a data management and sharing plan is not applicable for this foa.as applicable for the project proposed, reviewers will consider each of the following items, but will not give scores for these items, and should not consider them in providing an overall impact score.applications from foreign organizationsnot applicableselect agent researchgenerally not applicable. reviewers should bring any concerns to the attention of the scientific review officer.resource sharing plansreviewers will comment on whether the following resource sharing plans, or the rationale for not sharing the following types of resources, are reasonable: 1) data sharing plan; 2) sharing model organisms; and 3) genomic data sharing plan.if support for development, maintenance, or enhancement of software is requested in the application, the reviewers will comment on the proposed software dissemination plan.budget and period of supportreviewers will consider whether the budget and the requested period of support are fully justified and reasonable in relation to the proposed research.applications will be evaluated for scientific and technical merit by (an) appropriate scientific review group(s), convened by the nigms scientific review branch, in accordance with nih peer review policy and procedures, using the stated review criteria. assignment to a scientific review group will be shown in the era commons.as part of the scientific peer review, all applications will receive a written critique.applications will be assigned on the basis of established phs referral guidelines to the appropriate nih institute or center. applications will compete for available funds with all other recommended applications submitted in response to this foa. following initial peer review, recommended applications will receive a second level of review by the appropriate national advisory council or board. the following will be considered in making funding decisions:information regarding the disposition of applications is available in the nih grants policy statement.if the application is under consideration for funding, nih will request "just-in-time" information from the applicant as described in the nih grants policy statement.a formal notification in the form of a notice of award (noa) will be provided to the applicant organization for successful applications. the noa signed by the grants management officer is the authorizing document and will be sent via email to the recipient’s business official.awardees must comply with any funding restrictions described in section iv.6. funding restrictions. selection of an application for award is not an authorization to begin performance. any costs incurred before receipt of the noa are at the recipient's risk. these costs may be reimbursed only to the extent considered allowable pre-award costs.any application awarded in response to this foa will be subject to terms and conditions found on the award conditions and information for nih grants website. this includes any recent legislation and policy applicable to awards that is highlighted on this website.all nih grant and cooperative agreement awards include the nih grants policy statement as part of the noa. for these terms of award, see the nih grants policy statement part ii: terms and conditions of nih grant awards, subpart a: general and part ii: terms and conditions of nih grant awards, subpart b: terms and conditions for specific types of grants, recipients, and activities. more information is provided at award conditions and information for nih grants.recipients of federal financial assistance (ffa) from hhs must administer their programs in compliance with federal civil rights laws that prohibit discrimination on the basis of race, color, national origin, disability, age and, in some circumstances, religion, conscience, and sex. this includes ensuring programs are accessible to persons with limited english proficiency. the hhs office for civil rights provides guidance on complying with civil rights laws enforced by hhs. please see https://www.hhs.gov/civil-rights/for-providers/provider-obligations/index.html and http://www.hhs.gov/ocr/civilrights/understanding/section1557/index.html.hhs recognizes that research projects are often limited in scope for many reasons that are nondiscriminatory, such as the principal investigator’s scientific interest, funding limitations, recruitment requirements, and other considerations. thus, criteria in research protocols that target or exclude certain populations are warranted where nondiscriminatory justifications establish that such criteria are appropriate with respect to the health or safety of the subjects, the scientific study design, or the purpose of the research. for additional guidance regarding how the provisions apply to nih grant programs, please contact the scientific/research contact that is identified in section vii under agency contacts of this foa.please contact the hhs office for civil rights for more information about obligations and prohibitions under federal civil rights laws at https://www.hhs.gov/ocr/about-us/contact-us/index.html or call 1-800-368-1019 or tdd 1-800-537-7697.in accordance with the statutory provisions contained in section 872 of the duncan hunter national defense authorization act of fiscal year 2009 (public law 110-417), nih awards will be subject to the federal awardee performance and integrity information system (fapiis) requirements. fapiis requires federal award making officials to review and consider information about an applicant in the designated integrity and performance system (currently fapiis) prior to making an award. an applicant, at its option, may review information in the designated integrity and performance systems accessible through fapiis and comment on any information about itself that a federal agency previously entered and is currently in fapiis. the federal awarding agency will consider any comments by the applicant, in addition to other information in fapiis, in making a judgement about the applicant’s integrity, business ethics, and record of performance under federal awards when completing the review of risk posed by applicants as described in 45 cfr part 75.205 “federal awarding agency review of risk posed by applicants.” this provision will apply to all nih grants and cooperative agreements except fellowships.cooperative agreement terms and conditions of awardthe following special terms of award are in addition to, and not in lieu of, otherwise applicable u.s. office of management and budget (omb) administrative guidelines, u.s. department of health and human services (dhhs) grant administration regulations at 45 cfr part 75, 2 cfr 200, and other hhs, phs, and nih grant administration policies. the administrative and funding instrument used for this program will function as a cooperative agreement, an "assistance" mechanism (rather than an "acquisition" mechanism), in which substantial nih programmatic involvement with the recipients is anticipated during the performance of the activities. under the cooperative agreement, the nih purpose is to support and stimulate the recipients' activities by involvement in and otherwise working jointly with the award recipients in a partnership role; it is not to assume direction, prime responsibility, or a dominant role in the activities. consistent with this concept, the dominant role and prime responsibility will remain with the awardees for the project as a whole, although specific tasks and activities may be shared among the recipients and the nih as defined below.the pd(s)/pi(s) will have the primary responsibility for:nih staff have substantial programmatic involvement that is above and beyond the normal stewardship role in awards, as described below:project coordinator: nih project coordinator(s) with expertise in relevant areas will:the project coordinator will not participate in the oversight of the funding announcement, application review or programmatic and budgetary stewardship of the award. the project coordinator will also not participate as an active researcher in the execution of the funded research and will not be an author on any publications resulting from the project.program official: the nih program official will be responsible for oversight of the funding announcement and the normal programmatic stewardship of the award, including participating in funding recommendations, and will be named in the award notice. the program official will make assignments of mosaic k99 scholars to ue5 awardees in consultation with the mosaic k99 scientific/research contacts at participating nih institutes and centers. the program official will not partake of the duties of the project coordinator.areas of joint responsibility include:during the course of the award period, the recipient(s) will be invited to meet with nih staff, and/or other interested parties at an annual meeting in bethesda, md to review progress, and share outcomes. recipients and nih staff (i.e., project coordinator(s)) will work together to plan these meetings.recipients will be responsible for paying travel expenses for the annual meeting from the award budget.dispute resolution:disagreements between award recipients and the nih that arise regarding matters related to the scientific direction of the funded program may be brought to dispute resolution. a dispute resolution panel composed of three members will be convened. the panel will consist of a designee of the recipient, one nih designee, and a third designee with expertise in the relevant area who is chosen by the other two. this special dispute resolution procedure does not alter the awardee's right to appeal an adverse action that is otherwise appealable in accordance with phs regulation 42 cfr part 50, subpart d and dhhs regulation 45 cfr part 16.when multiple years are involved, awardees will be required to submit the research performance progress report (rppr) annually. continuation support will not be provided until the required forms are submitted and accepted.programs that involve participants should report on education in the responsible conduct of research and complete a trainee diversity report, in accordance with the rppr instruction guide. program outcomes must be reported as part of the rppr; the format of nrsa table 8c is suggested.the federal funding accountability and transparency act of 2006 (transparency act), includes a requirement for awardees of federal grants to report information about first-tier subawards and executive compensation under federal assistance awards issued in fy2011 or later. all awardees of applicable nih grants and cooperative agreements are required to report to the federal subaward reporting system (fsrs) available at www.fsrs.gov on all subawards over $25,000. see the nih grants policy statement for additional information on this reporting requirement.failure by the recipient institution to submit required forms in a timely, complete, and accurate manner may result in an expenditure disallowance or a delay in any continuation funding for the award.in accordance with the regulatory requirements provided at 45 cfr 75.113 and appendix xii to 45 cfr part 75, recipients that have currently active federal grants, cooperative agreements, and procurement contracts from all federal awarding agencies with a cumulative total value greater than $10,000,000 for any period of time during the period of performance of a federal award, must report and maintain the currency of information reported in the system for award management (sam) about civil, criminal, and administrative proceedings in connection with the award or performance of a federal award that reached final disposition within the most recent five-year period. the recipient must also make semiannual disclosures regarding such proceedings. proceedings information will be made publicly available in the designated integrity and performance system (currently fapiis). this is a statutory requirement under section 872 of public law 110-417, as amended (41 u.s.c. 2313). as required by section 3010 of public law 111-212, all information posted in the designated integrity and performance system on or after april 15, 2011, except past performance reviews required for federal procurement contracts, will be publicly available. full reporting requirements and procedures are found in appendix xii to 45 cfr part 75 – award term and conditions for recipient integrity and performance matters.a final rppr and the expenditure data portion of the federal financial report are required for closeout of an award as described in the nih grants policy statement.in carrying out its stewardship of human resource-related programs, the nih or its institutes and centers will periodically evaluate their ue5 research education programs, employing the measures identified below. in assessing the effectiveness of its research education investments, nih may request information from databases, pd/pis, and from participants themselves. where necessary, pd/pis and participants may be contacted after the completion of a research education experience for periodic updates on participants’ subsequent educational or employment history and professional activities.upon the completion of a program evaluation, nih and its ics will determine whether to (a) continue a program as currently configured, (b) continue a program with modifications, or (c) discontinue a program.in evaluating this research education program nih expects to use the following evaluation measures:for courses for skills development and mentoring programs for postdoctorates and early career investigators:we encourage inquiries concerning this funding opportunity and welcome the opportunity to answer questions from potential applicants.era service desk (questions regarding assist, era commons, application errors and warnings, documenting system problems that threaten submission by the due date, and post-submission issues)finding help online: http://grants.nih.gov/support/ (preferred method of contact) telephone: 301-402-7469 or 866-504-9552 (toll free)general grants information (questions regarding application instructions, application processes, and nih grant resources) email: grantsinfo@nih.gov (preferred method of contact) telephone: 301-637-3015grants.gov customer support (questions regarding grants.gov registration and workspace) contact center telephone: 800-518-4726 email: support@grants.govsba company registry (questions regarding required registration at the sba company registry and for technical questions or issues) website to email: http://sbir.gov/feedback?type=regalbert avila, ph.d. director, office of diversity and health disparities national institute on drug abuse (nida) telephone: 301-496-8804 email: aavila@nida.nih.govkenneth d. gibbs, jr., ph.d. national institute of general medical sciences (nigms) email: kenneth.gibbs@nih.govlanay m. mudd, ph.d., facsm national center for complementary and integrative health (nccih) phone: 301-594-9346 email: lanay.mudd@nih.govdesirée l. salazar, ph.d. national heart, lung, and blood institute (nhlbi) phone: 301-480-4177 email: desiree.salazar@nih.govzhuqing “charlie” li, phd national institute of allergy and infectious diseases (niaid) phone: 240-669-5068 email: aitraininghelpdesk@niaid.nih.govanissa j. brown, phd national institute of dental & craniofacial research (nidcr) phone: 301-594-4805 email: anissa.brown@nih.govjay churchill, ph.d. national institute of mental health (nimh) phone: 301-443-3621 email: churchillj@mail.nih.govrichard c. palmer, drph, jd national library of medicine (nlm) phone: 301-496-4254 email: richard.palmer@nih.govregine douthard, m.d., m.p.h. office of research on women's health (orwh) phone: 301-594-3283 email: douthardr@mail.nih.govchristopher barnhart, ph.d sexual & gender minority research office (sgmro) phone: 301-594-8983 email: christopher.barnhart@nih.govstephanie constant, ph.d. national institute of general medical sciences (nigms) email: stephanie.constant@nih.govpam fleming national institute on drug abuse (nida) telephone: 301- 480-1159 email: pfleming@nida.nih.govjustin rosenzweig national institute of general medical sciences (nigms) email: rosenzwj@nigms.nih.govshelley headley national center for complementary and integrative health (nccih) phone: 301-594-3788 email: shelley.headley@nih.govshaheed michael ziyout national heart, lung, and blood institute (nhlbi) phone: 301-827-8152 email: shaheed.ziyout@nih.govpaula acevedo national institute of allergy and infectious diseases (niaid) phone: 301-435-2860 email: paula.acevedo@nih.govdiana rutberg, mba national institute of dental & craniofacial research (nidcr) phone: 301-594-4798 email: dr258t@nih.govterri jarosik national institute of mental health (nimh) phone: 301-443-3858 email: tjarosik@mail.nih.govsamantha j tempchin national library of medicine (nlm) phone: 301-496-4222 email: tempchins@mail.nih.govrecently issued trans-nih policy notices may affect your application submission. a full list of policy notices published by nih is provided in the nih guide for grants and contracts. all awards are subject to the terms and conditions, cost principles, and other considerations described in the nih grants policy statement.awards are made under the authorization of sections 301 and 405 of the public health service act as amended (42 usc 241 and 284) and under federal regulations 42 cfr part 52, 45 cfr part 75, and 2 cfr 200.weekly toc for this announcement nih funding opportunities and noticesnote: for help accessing pdf, rtf, ms word, excel, powerpoint, audio or video files, see help downloading files.