Exploratory Clinical Neuroscience Research on Substance Use Disorders (R61/R33 Clinical Trial Optional)
https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/pa-files/PAR-19-282.html
national institutes of health (nih)national institute on drug abuse (nida)exploratory clinical neuroscience research on substance use disorders (r61/r33 clinical trial optional)r61/r33 exploratory/developmental phased awardnewsee notices of special interest associated with this funding opportunitynot-od-23-012 reminder: forms-h grant application forms and instructions must be used for due dates on or after january 25, 2023 - new grant application instructions now availablenot-od-22-190 - adjustments to nih and ahrq grant application due dates between september 22 and september 30, 2022see notices of special interest related to this funding opportunitypar-19-282nonesee section iii. 3. additional information on eligibility.93.279this funding opportunity announcement (foa) uses a r61/r33 phased innovation award mechanism to support clinical research applications that are exploratory and developmental in nature and focus on understanding the neurobiological mechanisms underlying substance use disorders (sud), including fundamental brain function relevant to substance use.for projects not requiring a phased research approach, applicants are encouraged to apply under a different funding mechanism (e.g., neuroscience research on drug abuse (r01 clinical trial optional).may 15, 2019september 10, 201930 days prior to the application due dateoctober 10, 2019; july 10, 2020; march 10, 2021; october 13, 2021; july 11, 2022; march 10, 2023, by 5:00 pm local time of applicant organization. all types of non-aids applications allowed for this funding opportunity announcement are due on these dates.applicants are encouraged to apply early to allow adequate time to make any corrections to errors found in the application during the submission process by the due date.january 7, 2020; september 7, 2020; may 7, 2021; january 7, 2022; september 7, 2022; may 7, 2023 by 5:00 pm local time of applicant organization. all types of aids and aids-related applications allowed for this funding opportunity announcement are due on these dates.applicants are encouraged to apply early to allow adequate time to make any corrections to errors found in the application during the submission process by the due date.march 2020; november 2020; july 2021; march 2022; november 2022; july 2023new dates may 2020, january 2021, october 2021, may 2022, january 2023, october 2023july 2020may 8, 2023not applicableit is critical that applicants follow the research (r) instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, except where instructed to do otherwise (in this foa or in a notice from the nih guide for grants and contracts). conformance to all requirements (both in the application guide and the foa) is required and strictly enforced. applicants must read and follow all application instructions in the application guide as well as any program-specific instructions noted in section iv. when the program-specific instructions deviate from those in the application guide, follow the program-specific instructions. applications that do not comply with these instructions may be delayed or not accepted for review.there are several options available to submit your application through grants.gov to nih and department of health and human services partners. you must use one of these submission options to access the application forms for this opportunity.part 1. overview information part 2. full text of the announcementsection i. funding opportunity description section ii. award information section iii. eligibility information section iv. application and submission information section v. application review information section vi. award administration information section vii. agency contacts section viii. other informationaccording to the national survey on drug use and health, in 2017, approximately 19.7 million people aged 12 or older had a substance use disorder (sud) in the past year, including 7.5 million people who had an illicit drug use disorder. increased negative health consequences from opioid use are a leading public health problem in the us. in addition to this ongoing opioid crisis, the drug use landscape has witnessed several other recent developments: an increase in the use of psychostimulants, the growing popularity of e-cigarette consumption, and the legalization of medical and recreational marijuana. together, these factors have renewed attention to the need for novel approaches to understanding the mechanisms underlying sud, including clinical research studies that illuminate the neurobiological underpinnings of the disease.this foa invites clinical research applications that are exploratory and developmental in nature, focus on understanding the neurobiological mechanisms underlying sud. for example, such projects could assess the feasibility of a novel area of investigation or a new experimental system that has the potential to enhance health-related research. another example could include the unique and innovative use of an existing methodology to explore a new scientific area. these studies may involve considerable risk but may lead to a breakthrough in a particular area, or to the development of novel techniques, agents, methodologies, models, or applications that could have a major impact on a field of biomedical, behavioral, or clinical research.topics that would be appropriate to this foa are described below, but they are not intended to be exhaustive or exclusionary:this funding opportunity uses a r61/r33 phased innovation award mechanism. support will be provided for up to 5 years, which includes initial support of up to 2 years of the r61 phase, followed by up to 3 years of support for the r33 phase upon successfully meeting r61 milestones. for transition to the r33 phase, awardees must submit the transition package no less than two months before the completion of the r61 phase. the transition plan should include the r61 progress report describing in detail the progress towards the r61 milestones and a description of how research proposed for the r33 phase will be supported by the completion of the r61 phase milestones. these materials will be evaluated by nih program staff. r33 funding decisions will be based on the original r61/r33 peer review recommendations, successful completion of transition milestones, program priorities, and availability of funds.additional considerations:applicants are strongly encouraged to contact program staff to discuss potential research projects prior to submitting an applicationsee section viii. other information for award authorities and regulations.grant: a support mechanism providing money, property, or both to an eligible entity to carry out an approved project or activity.new resubmissionthe oer glossary and the sf424 (r&r) application guide provide details on these application types.optional: accepting applications that either propose or do not propose clinical trial(s)need help determining whether you are doing a clinical trial?the number of awards is contingent upon nih appropriations and the submission of a sufficient number of meritorious applications.for the r61 planning phase, the combined budget for direct costs for up to two years may not exceed $500,000.for the r33 phase, budgets may exceed $500,000. applicants requesting $500,000 or more in direct costs during the r33 phase in any year (excluding consortium f&a) must contact a scientific/ research contact at least 6 weeks before submitting the application, as specified in section iv.7.the maximum period of the combined r61 and r33 phases is 5 years, with up to 2 years for the r61 phase and up to 3 years for the r33 phase. the scope of the proposed project should determine the requested project period.nih grants policies as described in the nih grants policy statement will apply to the applications submitted and awards made from this foa.higher education institutionsthe following types of higher education institutions are always encouraged to apply for nih support as public or private institutions of higher education:nonprofits other than institutions of higher educationfor-profit organizationsgovernmentsothernon-domestic (non-u.s.) entities (foreign institutions) are eligible to apply. non-domestic (non-u.s.) components of u.s. organizations are eligible to apply. foreign components, as defined in the nih grants policy statement, are allowed.applicant organizationsapplicant organizations must complete and maintain the following registrations as described in the sf 424 (r&r) application guide to be eligible to apply for or receive an award. all registrations must be completed prior to the application being submitted. registration can take 6 weeks or more, so applicants should begin the registration process as soon as possible. the nih policy on late submission of grant applications states that failure to complete registrations in advance of a due date is not a valid reason for a late submission.program directors/principal investigators (pd(s)/pi(s))all pd(s)/pi(s) must have an era commons account. pd(s)/pi(s) should work with their organizational officials to either create a new account or to affiliate their existing account with the applicant organization in era commons. if the pd/pi is also the organizational signing official, they must have two distinct era commons accounts, one for each role. obtaining an era commons account can take up to 2 weeks.any individual(s) with the skills, knowledge, and resources necessary to carry out the proposed research as the program director(s)/principal investigator(s) (pd(s)/pi(s)) is invited to work with his/her organization to develop an application for support. individuals from underrepresented racial and ethnic groups as well as individuals with disabilities are always encouraged to apply for nih support.for institutions/organizations proposing multiple pds/pis, visit the multiple program director/principal investigator policy and submission details in the senior/key person profile (expanded) component of the sf424 (r&r) application guide.this foa does not require cost sharing as defined in the nih grants policy statement.applicant organizations may submit more than one application, provided that each application is scientifically distinct.the nih will not accept duplicate or highly overlapping applications under review at the same time. this means that the nih will not accept:the application forms package specific to this opportunity must be accessed through assist, grants.gov workspace or an institutional system-to-system solution. links to apply using assist or grants.gov workspace are available in part 1 of this foa. see your administrative office for instructions if you plan to use an institutional system-to-system solution.it is critical that applicants follow the research (r) instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, except where instructed in this funding opportunity announcement to do otherwise. conformance to the requirements in the application guide is required and strictly enforced. applications that are out of compliance with these instructions may be delayed or not accepted for review.although a letter of intent is not required, is not binding, and does not enter into the review of a subsequent application, the information that it contains allows ic staff to estimate the potential review workload and plan the review.by the date listed in part 1. overview information, prospective applicants are asked to submit a letter of intent that includes the following information:email: nidaletterofintent@mail.nih.govapplicants are encouraged to send the letter of intent by email to the email address above but as an alternative the letter may also be sent to:office of extramural policy and review national institute on drug abuse/nih/dhhs 6001 executive boulevard, suite 4243, msc 9550 bethesda, md 20892-9550all page limitations described in the sf424 application guide and the table of page limits must be followed.note: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023, the data management and sharing (dms) plan will be attached in the other plan(s) attachment in forms-h and subsequent application forms packages. for due dates on or before january 24, 2023, the data sharing plan and genomic data sharing plan gds) will continue to be attached in the resource sharing plan attachment in forms-g application forms packages.the following section supplements the instructions found in the sf424 (r&r) application guide and should be used for preparing an application to this foa.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.other plan(s):note: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023, the data management and sharing plan will be attached in the other plan(s) attachment in forms-h and subsequent application forms packages. for due dates on or before january 24, 2023, the data sharing plan and genomic data sharing plan gds) will continue to be attached in the resource sharing plan attachment in forms-g application forms packages.all applicants planning research (funded or conducted in whole or in part by nih) that results in the generation of scientific data are required to comply with the instructions for the data management and sharing plan. all applications, regardless of the amount of direct costs requested for any one year, must address a data management and sharing plan.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed, with the following additional instructions:specific aims: describe and clearly demarcate the specific aims for each of the two phases (r61 and r33) on the single specific aims attachment. for the r61 phase, the specific aims should be focused on experiments that will test the proposed innovative concept/hypothesis. for the r33 phase, the specific aims should outline generally the plan to explore the innovative concept/hypothesis if it is unambiguously supported by the experiments described in the r61 phase.research strategy:the research strategy should contain separate sections that describe the r61 and r33 phases.r61 (phase 1):applicants should include one or more critical experiments for rigorously testing the proposed concept/hypothesis. these experiments must be scientifically justified, specific, and feasible. applicants should state explicitly the results that support, reject, or are inconclusive regarding testing of their concept/hypothesis, and are strongly encouraged to calculate and report effect size, in addition to statistical significance, whenever possible.preliminary data:an r61/r33 grant application need not have preliminary data, but they may be included if available.milestones:transition from the r61 to the r33 phase is contingent upon the successful completion of proposed milestones. these milestones are to be included as the last element of the research strategy section of the application and will be evaluated as part of the scientific and technical merit of the r61/r33 application. the milestones proposed in the application should be well-described, quantifiable, and scientifically justified to allow program staff to assess progress and successful completion of the r61 phase. include a section labeled "milestones" describing milestones to be achieved during the r61 phase to qualify for the transition to the r33 as part of research strategy within the approach section.r33 (phase 2):although the research strategy for the r33 phase is expected to be broad and somewhat speculative due to the unpredictable nature of the explorative research in the r61 phase, the research strategy for the r33 phase of the award should be described in enough detail for reviewers to evaluate the merit of this component of the application, based on anticipated results.it is understood that the proposed milestones for the r33 phase may be revised based on activities during the r61 planning phase. in the event of an award, the pd/pi and nih staff will negotiate a list of milestones for each year of support.resource sharing plan: individuals are required to comply with the instructions for the resource sharing plans as provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, with the following modification:appendix:only limited appendix materials are allowed. follow all instructions for the appendix as described in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.when involving nih-defined human subjects research, clinical research, and/or clinical trials (and when applicable, clinical trials research experience) follow all instructions for the phs human subjects and clinical trials information form in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, with the following additional instructions:if you answered “yes” to the question “are human subjects involved?” on the r&r other project information form, you must include at least one human subjects study record using the study record: phs human subjects and clinical trials information form or delayed onset study record.study record: phs human subjects and clinical trials informationall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.delayed onset studynote: delayed onset does not apply to a study that can be described but will not start immediately (i.e., delayed start).all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.foreign (non-u.s.) institutions must follow policies described in the nih grants policy statement, and procedures for foreign institutions.see part 1. section iii.1 for information regarding the requirement for obtaining a unique entity identifier and for completing and maintaining active registrations in system for award management (sam), nato commercial and government entity (ncage) code (if applicable), era commons, and grants.govpart i. overview information contains information about key dates and times. applicants are encouraged to submit applications before the due date to ensure they have time to make any application corrections that might be necessary for successful submission. when a submission date falls on a weekend or federal holiday, the application deadline is automatically extended to the next business day.organizations must submit applications to grants.gov (the online portal to find and apply for grants across all federal agencies). applicants must then complete the submission process by tracking the status of the application in the era commons, nih’s electronic system for grants administration. nih and grants.gov systems check the application against many of the application instructions upon submission. errors must be corrected and a changed/corrected application must be submitted to grants.gov on or before the application due date and time. if a changed/corrected application is submitted after the deadline, the application will be considered late. applications that miss the due date and time are subjected to the nih policy on late application submission.applicants are responsible for viewing their application before the due date in the era commons to ensure accurate and successful submission.information on the submission process and a definition of on-time submission are provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.this initiative is not subject to intergovernmental review.all nih awards are subject to the terms and conditions, cost principles, and other considerations described in the nih grants policy statement.pre-award costs are allowable only as described in the nih grants policy statement.applications must be submitted electronically following the instructions described in the sf424 (r&r) application guide. paper applications will not be accepted.applicants must complete all required registrations before the application due date. section iii. eligibility information contains information about registration.for assistance with your electronic application or for more information on the electronic submission process, visit how to apply – application guide. if you encounter a system issue beyond your control that threatens your ability to complete the submission process on-time, you must follow the dealing with system issues guidance. for assistance with application submission, contact the application submission contacts in section vii.important reminders:all pd(s)/pi(s) must include their era commons id in the credential field of the senior/key person profile component of the sf424(r&r) application package. failure to register in the commons and to include a valid pd/pi commons id in the credential field will prevent the successful submission of an electronic application to nih. see section iii of this foa for information on registration requirements.the applicant organization must ensure that the duns number it provides on the application is the same number used in the organization’s profile in the era commons and for the system for award management. additional information may be found in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.see more tips for avoiding common errors.upon receipt, applications will be evaluated for completeness and compliance with application instructions by the center for scientific review, nih. applications that are incomplete or non-compliant will not be reviewed.applicants are required to follow the instructions for post-submission materials, as described in the policy. any instructions provided here are in addition to the instructions in the policy.note: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023, the data sharing plan and genomic data sharing plan (gds) as part of the resource sharing plan will not be evaluated at time of review.only the review criteria described below will be considered in the review process.applications submitted to the nih in support of the nih mission are evaluated for scientific and technical merit through the nih peer review system.in addition, for applications involving clinical trials:a proposed clinical trial application may include study design, methods, and intervention that are not by themselves innovative but address important questions or unmet needs. additionally, the results of the clinical trial may indicate that further clinical development of the intervention is unwarranted or lead to new avenues of scientific investigation.for this particular announcement, note the following:this foa supports exploratory and developmental clinical research on sud. an r61/r33 grant application need not have preliminary data, but they may be included if available. accordingly, reviewers will emphasize the following:reviewers will assign a single impact score for the entire application, which includes both the r61 and r33 phases.reviewers will provide an overall impact score to reflect their assessment of the likelihood for the project to exert a sustained, powerful influence on the research field(s) involved, in consideration of the following review criteria and additional review criteria (as applicable for the project proposed).reviewers will consider each of the review criteria below in the determination of scientific merit, and give a separate score for each. an application does not need to be strong in all categories to be judged likely to have major scientific impact. for example, a project that by its nature is not innovative may be essential to advance a field.does the project address an important problem or a critical barrier to progress in the field? is the prior research that serves as the key support for the proposed project rigorous? if the aims of the project are achieved, how will scientific knowledge, technical capability, and/or clinical practice be improved? how will successful completion of the aims change the concepts, methods, technologies, treatments, services, or preventative interventions that drive this field?in addition, for applications involving clinical trialsare the scientific rationale and need for a clinical trial to test the proposed hypothesis or intervention well supported by preliminary data, clinical and/or preclinical studies, or information in the literature or knowledge of biological mechanisms? for trials focusing on clinical or public health endpoints, is this clinical trial necessary for testing the safety, efficacy or effectiveness of an intervention that could lead to a change in clinical practice, community behaviors or health care policy? for trials focusing on mechanistic, behavioral, physiological, biochemical, or other biomedical endpoints, is this trial needed to advance scientific understanding?are the pd(s)/pi(s), collaborators, and other researchers well suited to the project? if early stage investigators or those in the early stages of independent careers, do they have appropriate experience and training? if established, have they demonstrated an ongoing record of accomplishments that have advanced their field(s)? if the project is collaborative or multi-pd/pi, do the investigators have complementary and integrated expertise; are their leadership approach, governance and organizational structure appropriate for the project?in addition, for applications involving clinical trialswith regard to the proposed leadership for the project, do the pd/pi(s) and key personnel have the expertise, experience, and ability to organize, manage and implement the proposed clinical trial and meet milestones and timelines? do they have appropriate expertise in study coordination, data management and statistics? for a multicenter trial, is the organizational structure appropriate and does the application identify a core of potential center investigators and staffing for a coordinating center?does the application challenge and seek to shift current research or clinical practice paradigms by utilizing novel theoretical concepts, approaches or methodologies, instrumentation, or interventions? are the concepts, approaches or methodologies, instrumentation, or interventions novel to one field of research or novel in a broad sense? is a refinement, improvement, or new application of theoretical concepts, approaches or methodologies, instrumentation, or interventions proposed?in addition, for applications involving clinical trialsdoes the design/research plan include innovative elements, as appropriate, that enhance its sensitivity, potential for information or potential to advance scientific knowledge or clinical practice?are the overall strategy, methodology, and analyses well-reasoned and appropriate to accomplish the specific aims of the project? have the investigators included plans to address weaknesses in the rigor of prior research that serves as the key support for the proposed project? have the investigators presented strategies to ensure a robust and unbiased approach, as appropriate for the work proposed? are potential problems, alternative strategies, and benchmarks for success presented? if the project is in the early stages of development, will the strategy establish feasibility and will particularly risky aspects be managed? have the investigators presented adequate plans to address relevant biological variables, such as sex, for studies in vertebrate animals or human subjects?if the project involves human subjects and/or nih-defined clinical research, are the plans to address1) the protection of human subjects from research risks, and2) inclusion (or exclusion) of individuals on the basis of sex/gender, race, and ethnicity, as well as the inclusion or exclusion of individuals of all ages (including children and older adults), justified in terms of the scientific goals and research strategy proposed?specific to this foa:has the applicant proposed the required critical experiment(s) for testing the innovative idea? can these experiments unambiguously test the hypothesis at hand, and are they feasible? are the proposed milestones of the critical experiments well-defined with quantifiable measures that are appropriate for assessing the success of the r61 phase of the award? are the proposed critical experiments sufficient to determine if the project succeeded in accomplishing its specific aims? is it clear how the r33 phase of the study will develop and expand once the r61 phase is completed?in addition, for applications involving clinical trialsdoes the application adequately address the following, if applicablestudy designis the study design justified and appropriate to address primary and secondary outcome variable(s)/endpoints that will be clear, informative and relevant to the hypothesis being tested? is the scientific rationale/premise of the study based on previously well-designed preclinical and/or clinical research? given the methods used to assign participants and deliver interventions, is the study design adequately powered to answer the research question(s), test the proposed hypothesis/hypotheses, and provide interpretable results? is the trial appropriately designed to conduct the research efficiently? are the study populations (size, gender, age, demographic group), proposed intervention arms/dose, and duration of the trial, appropriate and well justified?are potential ethical issues adequately addressed? is the process for obtaining informed consent or assent appropriate? is the eligible population available? are the plans for recruitment outreach, enrollment, retention, handling dropouts, missed visits, and losses to follow-up appropriate to ensure robust data collection? are the planned recruitment timelines feasible and is the plan to monitor accrual adequate? has the need for randomization (or not), masking (if appropriate), controls, and inclusion/exclusion criteria been addressed? are differences addressed, if applicable, in the intervention effect due to sex/gender and race/ethnicity?are the plans to standardize, assure quality of, and monitor adherence to, the trial protocol and data collection or distribution guidelines appropriate? is there a plan to obtain required study agent(s)? does the application propose to use existing available resources, as applicable?data management and statistical analysisare planned analyses and statistical approach appropriate for the proposed study design and methods used to assign participants and deliver interventions? are the procedures for data management and quality control of data adequate at clinical site(s) or at center laboratories, as applicable? have the methods for standardization of procedures for data management to assess the effect of the intervention and quality control been addressed? is there a plan to complete data analysis within the proposed period of the award?will the scientific environment in which the work will be done contribute to the probability of success? are the institutional support, equipment and other physical resources available to the investigators adequate for the project proposed? will the project benefit from unique features of the scientific environment, subject populations, or collaborative arrangements?in addition, for applications involving clinical trialsif proposed, are the administrative, data coordinating, enrollment and laboratory/testing centers, appropriate for the trial proposed?does the application adequately address the capability and ability to conduct the trial at the proposed site(s) or centers? are the plans to add or drop enrollment centers, as needed, appropriate?if international site(s) is/are proposed, does the application adequately address the complexity of executing the clinical trial?if multi-sites/centers, is there evidence of the ability of the individual site or center to: (1) enroll the proposed numbers; (2) adhere to the protocol; (3) collect and transmit data in an accurate and timely fashion; and, (4) operate within the proposed organizational structure?as applicable for the project proposed, reviewers will evaluate the following additional items while determining scientific and technical merit, and in providing an overall impact score, but will not give separate scores for these items.study timelinespecific to applications involving clinical trialsis the study timeline described in detail, taking into account start-up activities, the anticipated rate of enrollment, and planned follow-up assessment? is the projected timeline feasible and well justified? does the project incorporate efficiencies and utilize existing resources (e.g., ctsas, practice-based research networks, electronic medical records, administrative database, or patient registries) to increase the efficiency of participant enrollment and data collection, as appropriate?are potential challenges and corresponding solutions discussed (e.g., strategies that can be implemented in the event of enrollment shortfalls)?for research that involves human subjects but does not involve one of the categories of research that are exempt under 45 cfr part 46, the committee will evaluate the justification for involvement of human subjects and the proposed protections from research risk relating to their participation according to the following five review criteria: 1) risk to subjects, 2) adequacy of protection against risks, 3) potential benefits to the subjects and others, 4) importance of the knowledge to be gained, and 5) data and safety monitoring for clinical trials.for research that involves human subjects and meets the criteria for one or more of the categories of research that are exempt under 45 cfr part 46, the committee will evaluate: 1) the justification for the exemption, 2) human subjects involvement and characteristics, and 3) sources of materials. for additional information on review of the human subjects section, please refer to the guidelines for the review of human subjects.inclusion of women, minorities, and individuals across the lifespanwhen the proposed project involves human subjects and/or nih-defined clinical research, the committee will evaluate the proposed plans for the inclusion (or exclusion) of individuals on the basis of sex/gender, race, and ethnicity, as well as the inclusion (or exclusion) of individuals of all ages (including children and older adults) to determine if it is justified in terms of the scientific goals and research strategy proposed. for additional information on review of the inclusion section, please refer to the guidelines for the review of inclusion in clinical research.the committee will evaluate the involvement of live vertebrate animals as part of the scientific assessment according to the following criteria: (1) description of proposed procedures involving animals, including species, strains, ages, sex, and total number to be used; (2) justifications for the use of animals versus alternative models and for the appropriateness of the species proposed; (3) interventions to minimize discomfort, distress, pain and injury; and (4) justification for euthanasia method if not consistent with the avma guidelines for the euthanasia of animals. reviewers will assess the use of chimpanzees as they would any other application proposing the use of vertebrate animals. for additional information on review of the vertebrate animals section, please refer to the worksheet for review of the vertebrate animal section.reviewers will assess whether materials or procedures proposed are potentially hazardous to research personnel and/or the environment, and if needed, determine whether adequate protection is proposed.for resubmissions, the committee will evaluate the application as now presented, taking into consideration the responses to comments from the previous scientific review group and changes made to the project.not applicablenot applicablenote: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023, the data sharing plan and genomic data sharing plan (gds) as part of the resource sharing plan will not be evaluated at time of review.as applicable for the project proposed, reviewers will consider each of the following items, but will not give scores for these items, and should not consider them in providing an overall impact score.reviewers will assess whether the project presents special opportunities for furthering research programs through the use of unusual talent, resources, populations, or environmental conditions that exist in other countries and either are not readily available in the united states or augment existing u.s. resources.reviewers will assess the information provided in this section of the application, including 1) the select agent(s) to be used in the proposed research, 2) the registration status of all entities where select agent(s) will be used, 3) the procedures that will be used to monitor possession use and transfer of select agent(s), and 4) plans for appropriate biosafety, biocontainment, and security of the select agent(s).reviewers will comment on whether the following resource sharing plans, or the rationale for not sharing the following types of resources, are reasonable: (1) data sharing plan; (2) sharing model organisms; and (3) genomic data sharing plan (gds).for projects involving key biological and/or chemical resources, reviewers will comment on the brief plans proposed for identifying and ensuring the validity of those resources.reviewers will consider whether the budget and the requested period of support are fully justified and reasonable in relation to the proposed research.applications will be evaluated for scientific and technical merit by (an) appropriate scientific review group(s) convened by csr, in accordance with nih peer review policy and procedures, using the stated review criteria. assignment to a scientific review group will be shown in the era commons.as part of the scientific peer review, all applications:applications will be assigned on the basis of established phs referral guidelines to the appropriate nih institute or center. applications will compete for available funds with all other recommended applications submitted in response to this foa. following initial peer review, recommended applications will receive a second level of review by the national advisory council on drug abuse. the following will be considered in making funding decisions:after the peer review of the application is completed, the pd/pi will be able to access his or her summary statement (written critique) via the era commons. refer to part 1 for dates for peer review, advisory council review, and earliest start date.information regarding the disposition of applications is available in the nih grants policy statement.if the application is under consideration for funding, nih will request "just-in-time" information from the applicant as described in the nih grants policy statement.a formal notification in the form of a notice of award (noa) will be provided to the applicant organization for successful applications. the noa signed by the grants management officer is the authorizing document and will be sent via email to the grantee’s business official.awardees must comply with any funding restrictions described in section iv.5. funding restrictions. selection of an application for award is not an authorization to begin performance. any costs incurred before receipt of the noa are at the recipient's risk. these costs may be reimbursed only to the extent considered allowable pre-award costs.any application awarded in response to this foa will be subject to terms and conditions found on the award conditions and information for nih grants website. this includes any recent legislation and policy applicable to awards that is highlighted on this website.individual awards are based on the application submitted to, and as approved by, the nih and are subject to the ic-specific terms and conditions identified in the noa.clinicaltrials.gov: if an award provides for one or more clinical trials. by law (title viii, section 801 of public law 110-85), the "responsible party" must register and submit results information for certain “applicable clinical trials” on the clinicaltrials.gov protocol registration and results system information website (https://register.clinicaltrials.gov). nih expects registration and results reporting of all trials whether required under the law or not. for more information, see https://grants.nih.gov/policy/clinical-trials/reporting/index.htminstitutional review board or independent ethics committee approval: grantee institutions must ensure that all protocols are reviewed by their irb or iec. to help ensure the safety of participants enrolled in nih-funded studies, the awardee must provide nih copies of documents related to all major changes in the status of ongoing protocols. data and safetymonitoring requirements: the nih policy for data and safety monitoring requires oversight and monitoring of all nih-conducted or -supported human biomedical and behavioral intervention studies (clinical trials) to ensure the safety of participants and the validity and integrity of the data. further information concerning these requirements is found at http://grants.nih.gov/grants/policy/hs/data_safety.htm and in the application instructions (sf424 (r&r) and phs 398).investigational new drug or investigational device exemption requirements: consistent with federal regulations, clinical research projects involving the use of investigational therapeutics, vaccines, or other medical interventions (including licensed products and devices for a purpose other than that for which they were licensed) in humans under a research protocol must be performed under a food and drug administration (fda) investigational new drug (ind) or investigational device exemption (ide).all nih grant and cooperative agreement awards include the nih grants policy statement as part of the noa. for these terms of award, see the nih grants policy statement part ii: terms and conditions of nih grant awards, subpart a: general and part ii: terms and conditions of nih grant awards, subpart b: terms and conditions for specific types of grants, grantees, and activities. more information is provided at award conditions and information for nih grants.recipients of federal financial assistance (ffa) from hhs must administer their programs in compliance with federal civil rights law. this means that recipients of hhs funds must ensure equal access to their programs without regard to a person’s race, color, national origin, disability, age and, in some circumstances, sex and religion. this includes ensuring your programs are accessible to persons with limited english proficiency. hhs recognizes that research projects are often limited in scope for many reasons that are nondiscriminatory, such as the principal investigator’s scientific interest, funding limitations, recruitment requirements, and other considerations. thus, criteria in research protocols that target or exclude certain populations are warranted where nondiscriminatory justifications establish that such criteria are appropriate with respect to the health or safety of the subjects, the scientific study design, or the purpose of the research.for additional guidance regarding how the provisions apply to nih grant programs, please contact the scientific/research contact that is identified in section vii under agency contacts of this foa. hhs provides general guidance to recipients of ffa on meeting their legal obligation to take reasonable steps to provide meaningful access to their programs by persons with limited english proficiency. please see https://www.hhs.gov/civil-rights/for-individuals/special-topics/limited-english-proficiency/index.html. the hhs office for civil rights also provides guidance on complying with civil rights laws enforced by hhs. please see https://www.hhs.gov/civil-rights/for-individuals/section-1557/index.html; and https://www.hhs.gov/civil-rights/for-providers/laws-regulations-guidance/index.html. recipients of ffa also have specific legal obligations for serving qualified individuals with disabilities. please see https://www.hhs.gov/civil-rights/for-individuals/disability/index.html. please contact the hhs office for civil rights for more information about obligations and prohibitions under federal civil rights laws at https://www.hhs.gov/ocr/about-us/contact-us/index.html or call 1-800-368-1019 or tdd 1-800-537-7697. also note it is an hhs departmental goal to ensure access to quality, culturally competent care, including long-term services and supports, for vulnerable populations. for further guidance on providing culturally and linguistically appropriate services, recipients should review the national standards for culturally and linguistically appropriate services in health and health care at http://minorityhealth.hhs.gov/omh/browse.aspx?lvl=2&lvlid=53.in accordance with the statutory provisions contained in section 872 of the duncan hunter national defense authorization act of fiscal year 2009 (public law 110-417), nih awards will be subject to the federal awardee performance and integrity information system (fapiis) requirements. fapiis requires federal award making officials to review and consider information about an applicant in the designated integrity and performance system (currently fapiis) prior to making an award. an applicant, at its option, may review information in the designated integrity and performance systems accessible through fapiis and comment on any information about itself that a federal agency previously entered and is currently in fapiis. the federal awarding agency will consider any comments by the applicant, in addition to other information in fapiis, in making a judgement about the applicant’s integrity, business ethics, and record of performance under federal awards when completing the review of risk posed by applicants as described in 45 cfr part 75.205 “federal awarding agency review of risk posed by applicants.” this provision will apply to all nih grants and cooperative agreements except fellowships.cooperative agreement terms and conditions of awardnot applicabledata management and sharingnote: the nih policy for data management and sharing is effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023.consistent with the nih policy for data management and sharing, when data management and sharing is applicable to the award, recipients will be required to adhere to the data management and sharing requirements as outlined in the nih grants policy statement. upon the approval of a data management and sharing plan, it is required for recipients to implement the plan as described.when multiple years are involved, awardees will be required to submit the research performance progress report (rppr) annually and financial statements as required in the nih grants policy statement.a final rppr, invention statement, and the expenditure data portion of the federal financial report are required for closeout of an award, as described in the nih grants policy statement.the federal funding accountability and transparency act of 2006 (transparency act), includes a requirement for awardees of federal grants to report information about first-tier subawards and executive compensation under federal assistance awards issued in fy2011 or later. all awardees of applicable nih grants and cooperative agreements are required to report to the federal subaward reporting system (fsrs) available at www.fsrs.gov on all subawards over $25,000. see the nih grants policy statement for additional information on this reporting requirement.in accordance with the regulatory requirements provided at 45 cfr 75.113 and appendix xii to 45 cfr part 75, recipients that have currently active federal grants, cooperative agreements, and procurement contracts from all federal awarding agencies with a cumulative total value greater than $10,000,000 for any period of time during the period of performance of a federal award, must report and maintain the currency of information reported in the system for award management (sam) about civil, criminal, and administrative proceedings in connection with the award or performance of a federal award that reached final disposition within the most recent five-year period. the recipient must also make semiannual disclosures regarding such proceedings. proceedings information will be made publicly available in the designated integrity and performance system (currently fapiis). this is a statutory requirement under section 872 of public law 110-417, as amended (41 u.s.c. 2313). as required by section 3010 of public law 111-212, all information posted in the designated integrity and performance system on or after april 15, 2011, except past performance reviews required for federal procurement contracts, will be publicly available. full reporting requirements and procedures are found in appendix xii to 45 cfr part 75 – award term and conditions for recipient integrity and performance matters.we encourage inquiries concerning this funding opportunity and welcome the opportunity to answer questions from potential applicants.era service desk (questions regarding assist, era commons, application errors and warnings, documenting system problems that threaten submission by the due date, and post-submission issues)finding help online: http://grants.nih.gov/support/ (preferred method of contact) telephone: 301-402-7469 or 866-504-9552 (toll free)general grants information (questions regarding application instructions, application processes, and nih grant resources) email: grantsinfo@nih.gov (preferred method of contact) telephone: 301-637-3015grants.gov customer support (questions regarding grants.gov registration and workspace) contact center telephone: 800-518-4726 email: support@grants.govvani pariyadath, ph.d. national institute on drug abuse (nida) telephone: (301) 443-3209 email: vani.pariyadath@nih.govexamine your era commons account for review assignment and contact information (information appears two weeks after the submission due date).cheryl nathaniel national institution on drug abuse (nida) telephone: 301-827-6703 email: nathanic@nida.nih.govrecently issued trans-nih policy notices may affect your application submission. a full list of policy notices published by nih is provided in the nih guide for grants and contracts. all awards are subject to the terms and conditions, cost principles, and other considerations described in the nih grants policy statement.awards are made under the authorization of sections 301 and 405 of the public health service act as amended (42 usc 241 and 284) and under federal regulations 42 cfr part 52 and 45 cfr part 75.weekly toc for this announcement nih funding opportunities and noticesnote: for help accessing pdf, rtf, ms word, excel, powerpoint, audio or video files, see help downloading files.