NINDS Renewal Awards of SBIR Phase II Grants (Phase IIB) for Clinical Trials and Clinical Research (R44 Clinical Trial Optional)
https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/pa-files/PAR-21-265.html
national institutes of health (nih)national institute of neurological disorders and stroke (ninds)r44 small business innovation research (sbir) grant - phase ii onlyreissue of par-18-665not-od-23-012 reminder: forms-h grant application forms and instructions must be used for due dates on or after january 25, 2023 - new grant application instructions now availablenot-od-22-190 - adjustments to nih and ahrq grant application due dates between september 22 and september 30, 2022october 28, 2021 - reminder: forms-g grant application forms & instructions must be used for due dates on or after january 25, 2022 - new grant application instructions now available. see notice not-od-22-018.september 13, 2021 - updates to the non-discrimination legal requirements for nih recipients. see notice not-od-21-181.august 5, 2021 - new nih "forms-g" grant application forms and instructions coming for due dates on or after january 25, 2022. see notice not-od-21-169.august 5, 2021 - update: notification of upcoming change in federal-wide unique entity identifier requirements. see notice not-od-21-170april 20, 2021 - expanding requirement for era commons ids to all senior/key personnel. see notice not-od-21-109august 3, 2021 - notice of correction to key dates for par-21-265. see notice not-ns-22-007.par-21-114 - ninds renewal awards of sbir phase ii grants (phase iib) for pre-clinical research (r44 clinical trial not allowed)par-21-266 - ninds exploratory clinical trials for small business (r43/r44 clinical trial required)par-21-267 - ninds exploratory clinical trials for small business (r41/r42 clinical trial required)see section iii. 3. additional information on eligibility.93.853some projects initiated with sbir or sttr funding require considerable financing beyond the sbir/sttr phase ii award to achieve commercialization. the development of medical biotechnology products is often impeded by a significant funding gap (known as the “valley of death”) between the end of the sbir/sttr phase ii award and the commercialization stage. the goal of this foa is to assist applicants in pursuing the next appropriate milestone(s) necessary to advance a product/technology that requires federal regulatory approval or to bring a complex research tool to market. this opportunity aims to facilitate the transition of previously funded sbir and sttr phase ii projects to the commercialization stage by promoting partnerships between ninds sbir or sttr awardees and third-party investors and/or strategic partners in the phase iib competing renewal. applicants are strongly encouraged to secure independent third-party funding throughout the phase iib project period.30 days prior to the application due datestandard dates applythe first standard due date for this foa is september 5, 2021.all applications are due by 5:00 pm local time of applicant organization. all types of non-aids applications allowed for this funding opportunity announcement are due on the listed date(s). applicants are encouraged to apply early to allow adequate time to make any corrections to errors found in the application during the submission process by the due date.all applications are due by 5:00 pm local time of applicant organization. all types of non-aids applications allowed for this funding opportunity announcement are due on the listed date(s).applicants are encouraged to apply early to allow adequate time to make any corrections to errors found in the application during the submission process by the due date.not applicable*** sbir/sttr applications are no longer accepted on standard aids due dates.standard dates applystandard dates applystandard dates applynot applicableit is critical that applicants follow the sbir/sttr (b) instructions in the sf424 (r&r) sbir/sttr application guide except where instructed to do otherwise (in this foa or in a notice from the nih guide for grants and contracts). conformance to all requirements (both in the application guide and the foa) is required and strictly enforced. applicants must read and follow all application instructions in the application guide as well as any program-specific instructions noted in section iv. when the program-specific instructions deviate from those in the application guide, follow the program-specific instructions. applications that do not comply with these instructions may be delayed or not accepted for review.there are several options available to submit your application through grants.gov to nih and department of health and human services partners. you must use one of these submission options to access the application forms for this opportunity.purposeninds is committed to advancing diagnostics and treatments for people burdened by neurological diseases, and the ninds small business innovation research (sbir) and small business technology transfer (sttr) programs have provided the small business community with critical seed funding to support the development of a wide variety of technologies and therapeutics for the diagnosis and treatment of neurological diseases. the sbir/sttr programs are structured in three phases. the main objective in sbir/sttr phase i is to establish the technical merit and feasibility of the proposed research and development (r&d) efforts, whereas in sbir/sttr phase ii it is to continue the r&d efforts to advance the technology toward ultimate commercialization. at the conclusion of an sbir/sttr phase ii, it is expected that the small business concern (sbc) will fully commercialize their product or technology using non-sbir/sttr funds in phase iii.the development of medical biotechnology products is often impeded by a significant funding gap (known as the “valley of death”). to achieve commercialization, some projects initiated with sbir or sttr funding require considerable grant-in-aid financing beyond the sbir/sttr phase ii award to achieve follow-on investment or commercialization. in particular, the development of regulated products such as therapeutics and medical devices often requires several years and substantial capital investments, due in part to the high costs of clinical trials.this foa supports sbir phase iib applications from small business concerns (sbcs) for clinical trials or clinical research that contribute to the justification for a future trial to establish efficacy (such as a phase 3 trial or a pivotal device trial). this includes phase 1 and 2 studies of drugs and biologics, feasibility studies of devices, as well as preliminary studies of surgical, behavioral or rehabilitation therapies. a wide range of trials at different stages of development are allowed, including first-in-human (as defined by the food and drug administration), phase 1 and 2 single-site studies, and phase 2b multicenter studies. applications must aim to generate data that inform further clinical development of the proposed intervention or diagnostic. the earliest studies should be designed to provide important initial information regarding the intervention (e.g., safety, tolerability, dosing) or diagnostic. later-stage studies will generally include randomization and blinding and should yield data that allow a clear go/no-go decision regarding whether the intervention should proceed to an efficacy trial. all applications must outline specific plans for future development in the event of promising results.in addition, ninds recognizes that companies developing products that have small potential revenue streams or that target small patient populations face additional barriers to market entry that make them less attractive to investors and strategic partners at preclinical or early clinical stages of development. many of these technologies require complex clinical trial designs because of small and geographically diverse patient populations.for the purposes of this foa, ninds has defined small markets as development of novel products that:the goal of this foa is to assist applicants in pursuing the next appropriate milestone(s) necessary to advance a product/technology that requires federal regulatory approval or to bring a complex research tool to market. to achieve this goal, the foa aims to facilitate the transition of previously funded sbir or sttr phase ii projects to the commercialization stage by encouraging business relationships between nih’s sbir/sttr awardees and third-party investors and/or strategic partners. in particular, this foa will give competitive preference and funding priority to applications deemed likely to result in a commercial product as indicated by an applicant's ability to secure partnerships within a broad range of potential third-parties.definitionsfor this funding opportunity announcement phase 1 and 2 clinical studies or trials refer to the common phases of a clinical trial. sbir phase i and ii refer to the project phases of the sbir program. sbir phase iib awards must be based on a previously successful sbir or sttr phase ii award.specific objectivesindependent third-party partnersthis foa is specifically intended to encourage business relationships between applicant sbcs and third-party investors/strategic partners who can provide substantial financing to help accelerate the commercialization of promising new products and technologies initiated with nih sbir or sttr funding. in particular, applicants are expected to leverage their previous nih sbir or sttr support, as well as the opportunity to compete for additional ninds funding under this foa, to negotiate and attract third-party financing needed to advance a product or technology toward commercialization. the applicant’s ability to secure funds will provide a measure of commercial potential that is essential for the sbir applications submitted to this foa. this commercial potential will be strongly considered in making funding decisions. it is anticipated that many of the partnerships between applicant sbcs and third-party partners will involve a considerable level of project due diligence, thereby increasing the likelihood of commercial success for the funded projects. third-party partners include, but are not limited to, another company, a venture capital firm, an “angel” investor, a foundation, a university, a research institution, a state or local government, or any combination of the above. in light of these goals, the ninds strongly encourages applicants to establish business relationships with investors and/or strategic partners that have appropriate prior experience in the commercialization of emerging biomedical technologies.ninds expects companies working in small markets (as defined above) to secure independent third-party funding equal to or greater than one-third of the ninds funds being requested throughout the project period. for all other projects, it is expected that the level of this independent third-party funding will be equal to or greater than the ninds funds being requested throughout the phase iib bridge award project period.scientific/technical scopethe technical and commercial objectives described in the sbir phase iib application must represent an extension of the development efforts that were pursued in a previously funded nih sbir or sttr phase ii grant or contract.examples of appropriate studies under this foa include, but are not limited to, those designed to:ninds recognizes that devices can differ greatly in terms of basic form and function, physiological bases for therapy, degree of invasiveness, etc. a pivotal device study, for example, could potentially be used in support of an off-label indication of an existing market approved device, or to provide evidence for a novel device design in support of a pre-market approval (pma), humanitarian device exemption (hde), 510(k) or 510(k) de novo submission. due to the broad scope of possible medical devices and the varied nature of the regulatory path, investigators considering applications to evaluate devices are strongly encouraged to contact scientific/research staff as early as possible to discuss these issues and determine the suitability of their project for this funding mechanism.this par encourages applications from diverse teams of investigators, including team members that are underrepresented in the biomedical, behavioral, or clinical research workforce. fostering diversity by encouraging the participation of individuals from nationally underrepresented groups in the scientific research workforce is longstanding interest of congress, and a key component of the nih strategy to identify, develop, support, and maintain the quality of our scientific human capital (e.g., public law 114-329, american innovation and competitiveness act of 2017, and notice of nih's interest in diversity,?not-od-20-031). scientists and trainees from underrepresented backgrounds and life experiences bring different perspectives, creativity, and individual enterprise to address complex scientific problems.?increasing participation by socially and economically disadvantaged and women-owned small businesses is also critical to the success of the sbir and sttr programs.?applicants should take note of the following:(1) consultation with ninds: applicants are encouraged to consult with ninds scientific/research staff as plans for an application are being developed (see section vii, agency contacts) and no later than 12 weeks prior to the anticipated application submission date. this early contact will provide an opportunity to clarify ninds policies and guidelines as well as to discuss how to develop an appropriate project timeline and milestone plan, which is subject to peer review. as well, discussions regarding strategies for recruitment and inclusion of women and minorities are available.(2) other relevant programs: ninds supports clinical trial networks specifically designed to implement multi-site clinical trials, and when appropriate, it is strongly preferred that such trials be considered for implementation through one of these networks. see https://www.ninds.nih.gov/current-research/research-funded-ninds/clinical-research for more information:before submitting an application to this foa, applicants should consult with ninds scientific/research staff to obtain feedback on the suitability of their trial for one of these networks. an important advantage of the networks is their capacity to provide clinical, statistical, and logistical expertise in developing study protocols, as well as a standing national network of experienced clinical sites prepared to enroll study participants.trans-nih initiatives. ninds participates in funding opportunities under the heal initiative that support clinical trials focused on development of therapies and technologies directed at enhanced pain management. if eligible, companies are encouraged to apply through these funding opportunties. for more information visit: https://heal.nih.gov/.ninds cooperative agreement (u44) translational programs. ninds has specific translational programs that utilize the sbir cooperative agreement mechanism (u44), some of which allow preclinical and clinical trial activity within a single proposal. if eligible, companies are encouraged to apply through these programs. for more information visit: https://www.ninds.nih.gov/current-research/research-funded-ninds/translational-research.(3) nih resources:as appropriate, applicants are encouraged to make use of the following resources for clinical research including:applicants are strongly encouraged to leverage existing ninds research resources for their studies whenever possible. such resources may include biospecimens from ninds human biospecimen and data repository (biosend) or informatics system. the ninds biosend repository receives, processes, stores, and distributes biospecimen resources from ninds funded studies that can be shared by the neuroscience research community, and currently banks a variety of biospecimens including dna, plasma, serum, rna, csf, and saliva. the ninds human cell and data repository provides 1) disease-relevant stem cell lines for biomarker discovery, and/or 2) the capacity to bank blood for the creation of new cell lines relevant to their disease of interest. leveraging the resources and support from neurological disorder advocacy groups, private research foundations, academic institutions, other government agencies and the nih intramural program is also encouraged. finally, applicants are encouraged to leverage the resources of ongoing clinical trials supported through other federal or private funds.applications proposing to collect biospecimens are strongly recommended to use the biosend protocols and procedures, and all specimens collected and banked with biosend must come from individuals who have consented to banking and sharing broadly with academia and industry. note that costs for collection are not included as a component of the ninds biomarkers repository award. therefore, most costs for the biospecimen banking are borne by the grantees utilizing this resource (see not-ns-15-046). applicants planning projects in which biospecimens will be collected are strongly advised to consult the biosend website for more information about samples banked at the repository. in addition, applicants are advised to consult with biosend staff to obtain a quote for biospecimen banking costs (email: biosend@iu.edu).(4) irb documentation: irb approval is not required at the time of application submission, but is required prior to funding. as such, ninds encourages investigators to begin these processes as early as possible. ninds also will require documentation of any other necessary regulatory approvals (e.g., recombinant dna advisory committee) prior to funding. applicants are encouraged to review the nih policy concerning single irb for multisite clinical trials (see https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/notice-files/not-od-16-094.html and https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/notice-files/not-od-17-076.html) as well as the sirb requirement per the revised common rule at 45cfr46.114 https://www.hhs.gov/ohrp/regulations-and-policy/regulations/45-cfr-46/revised-common-rule-regulatory-text/index.html#46.114.(5) study rationale: the rationale for a clinical trial must be based on (i) an unmet medical need; (ii) a plausible biological mechanism; and (iii) robust supporting data, e.g., from non-clinical (in vivo and/or in vitro data) studies or preliminary clinical studies that demonstrate there is an adequate scientific foundation to justify the proposed trial. the scientific premise for the trial should be based on preclinical and/or clinical data from rigorously performed studies (see http://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/notice-files/not-od-15-103.html). if previous research does not meet the rigor criteria outlined to an acceptable degree, applicants should address how the current study design addresses the deficiencies.(6) efficacy: this foa is not intended to support the conduct of a clinical trial where the primary aim is to establish or confirm definitive efficacy. applications to implement definitive efficacy trials (e.g., phase 3 trials of drugs or pivotal device trials) should be submitted to par-18-422, ninds efficacy clinical trials. while an exploratory clinical trial may examine clinical outcomes or biomarker outcomes as measures of "preliminary efficacy" as a secondary aim, it is important that it not appear to be an underpowered efficacy trial.(7) effect size: a trial will not be considered for funding under this foa when its primary objective is to estimate intervention effect size to be used in power calculations for a future efficacy clinical trial. effect size estimates based on small or short-term studies are often unreliable. power for an efficacy trial should be based on the smallest clinically meaningful effect size, which is often determined by surveying physicians or patients, or by comparison to the effect produced by existing interventions.(8) ancillary studies: ancillary studies, defined as research undertaken to address scientific questions relevant to the parent study and that require access to data or records from the parent study, and/or involve collection of additional data, specimens, or records, are not permitted within the clinical trial application. applicants are advised to discuss their ideas with scientific/research staff for direction on an appropriate funding mechanism.(9) secondary aims: for drugs and biologics, issues of study feasibility and refinement of study procedures may be addressed as secondary aims in a clinical trial, but not as the primary aim. examples of such secondary aims includefor early feasibility or traditional feasibility studies of medical devices, issues of study feasibility and refinement of study procedures are expected to be addressed as primary aims in addition to providing initial clinical safety data at this stage. these may include:(10) multiple trials: there may be several questions to be answered before an efficacy trial can be designed and conducted. the proposed study is not required to address all potential questions but the applicant should clearly detail the overall clinical development plan for the intervention, which could involve more than one exploratory trial.(11) adaptive designs: the use of innovative and efficient study designs is encouraged, such as adaptive dose-finding designs, designs incorporating plans for sample size recalculation, and futility designs. applications for phase 1 trials in the patient population are encouraged when appropriate, as are applications that encompass phase 1 and phase 2a studies (early proof of mechanism or proof of concept). applications for seamless phase 2/3 trials should be submitted under par-18-422, ninds efficacy clinical trials. for medical devices, traditional feasibility study designs may include, for example, single-arm studies, on-off interventions (patients as their own controls), device-device comparisons, device-drug comparisons, comparisons to historical controls, comparisons to performance criteria/goals, adaptive designs, and bayesian designs.(12) pharmacometrics: applications seeking to obtain data needed for pharmacometric modeling are encouraged, with the ultimate aim of enabling the optimal design of a future efficacy trial of an intervention.(13) innovative technologies: applicants are encouraged to consider utilizing (at least experimentally) digital/mobile/sensor technologies and web-based systems to facilitate data collection (including data collection in a continual, contextual, real-world setting rather than through a traditional milestone-based approach), as well as to enhance protocol adherence.(14) rare diseases: trials in rare diseases are encouraged, particularly in conditions for which definitive outcome measures and prior data from natural history studies are available. it is recognized that available patient pools may not be adequate to meet the sample size requirements typically seen in trials in other disorders of the nervous system, and innovative trial designs, including crossover designs and adaptive designs, can be appropriately considered. additionally, an assessment of clinical efficacy as a secondary outcome may be warranted for rare diseases where the available patient pool may not make a definitive efficacy trial feasible. regardless of the design it is especially important to ensure that the study design and statistical analysis plans will meet the stated objectives,and allow for the most efficient evaluation of the limited subjects. the application should clearly demonstrate recruitment feasibility at the participating sites and applicants are encouraged to fully engage patient advocacy groups or similar representatives of the affected disease community in study design, execution, and reporting.(15) relationships with patient groups: applicants are strongly encouraged to establish relationships with patient groups and solicit their input on recruitment, the clinical meaningfulness of the question under study, the relevance of the proposed clinical outcomes, and approaches to minimizing the burden on study subjects(16) biomarkers: applications are encouraged that evaluate preliminary efficacy based on early signals of activity on biomarkers or clinical endpoints, or that mechanistically test the activity of an intervention in terms of its presumed target(s). this foa is not appropriate for applications primarily intended to discover biomarkers.applications not-responsive to this foa:see section viii. other information for award authorities and regulations.grant: a support mechanism providing money, property, or both to an eligible entity to carry out an approved project or activity.resubmission (phase iib)resubmission (phase iib)the oer glossary and the sf424 (r&r) application guide provide details on these application types. only those application types listed here are allowed for the foa.need help determining whether you are doing a clinical trial?the number of awards is contingent upon nih appropriations and the submission of a sufficient number of meritorious applications.total funding support (direct costs, indirect costs, fee) normally may not exceed $1,710,531 for phase iib awards. nih has received a waiver from sba, as authorized by statute, to exceed these total award amount hard caps for specific topics. the current list of approved topics can be found at https://sbir.nih.gov/funding.applicants are strongly encouraged to contact program officials prior to submitting any application in excess of the hard caps listed above and early in the application planning process. in all cases, applicants should propose a budget that is reasonable and appropriate for completion of the research project.phase iib budgets must be submitted in accordance with participating ic-specific budget limitations described at https://sbir.nih.gov/funding .ninds does not generally fund phase iib applications greater than $3,000,000 total funding support, with no more than $1,500,000 total cost in any year.phase iib budgets must be submitted in accordance with participating ic-specific budget limitations described at https://sbir.nih.gov/funding .ninds does not generally fund phase iib applications greater than $3,000,000 total funding support, with no more than $1,500,000 total cost in any year.durations up to 3 years for phase iib may be requested.nih grants policies as described in the nih grants policy statement will apply to the applications submitted and awards made from this foa.only united states small business concerns (sbcs) are eligible to submit applications for this opportunity. a small business concern is one that, at the time of award of phase i and phase ii, meets all of the following criteria:if the concern is more than 50% owned by multiple venture capital operating companies, hedge funds, private equity firms, or any combination of these falls under 3 (ii) or 3 (iii) above, see section iv. application and submission information for additional instructions regarding required application certification.if an employee stock ownership plan owns all or part of the concern, each stock trustee and plan member is considered an owner.if a trust owns all or part of the concern, each trustee and trust beneficiary is considered an owner.definitions:sbcs must also meet the other regulatory requirements found in 13 c.f.r. part 121. business concerns, other than investment companies licensed, or state development companies qualifying under the small business investment act of 1958, 15 u.s.c. 661, et seq., are affiliates of one another when either directly or indirectly, (a) one concern controls or has the power to control the other; or (b) a third-party/parties controls or has the power to control both. business concerns include, but are not limited to, any individual (sole proprietorship) partnership, corporation, joint venture, association, or cooperative. the sf424 (r&r) sbir/sttr application guide should be referenced for detailed eligibility information.small business concerns that are more than 50% owned by multiple venture capital operating companies, hedge funds, private equity firms, or any combination of these are not eligible to apply to the nih sttr program.performance benchmark requirementsphase i to phase ii transition rate benchmark: in accordance with guidance from the sba, the hhs sbir/sttr program is implementing the phase i to phase ii transition rate benchmark required by the sbir/sttr reauthorization act of 2011 and the sbir and sttr extension act of 2022. the benchmark establishes a minimum number of phase ii awards the company must have received relative to a given number of phase i awards received during the 5-fiscal year time period. the transition rate is calculated as the total number of sbir and sttr phase ii awards a company received during the past 5 fiscal years divided by the total number of sbir and sttr phase i awards it received during the past 5 fiscal years excluding the most recently-completed year. the transition rate requirement, agreed upon and established by all 11 sbir agencies, was published for public comment in a federal register notice on october 16, 2012 (77 fr 63410) and amended on may 23, 2013 (78 fr 30951).on june 1 of each year, sba will identify the companies that fail to meet minimum performance requirements.sba calculates individual company phase i to phase ii transition rates using sbir and sttr award information across all federal agencies. sba will notify companies and the relevant officials at the participating agencies. more information on the phase i to phase ii transition rate requirement is available at sbir.gov.phase ii to commercialization benchmark: in accordance with guidance from the sba, the hhs sbir/sttr programs are implementing the phase ii to commercialization rate benchmark for phase i applicants, as required by the sbir/sttr reauthorization act of 2011 and the sbir and sttr extension act of 2022. the commercialization rate benchmark was published in a federal register notice on august 8, 2013 (78 fr 48537), with a reopening of the comment period published on september 26, 2013 (78 fr 59410).non-domestic (non-u.s.) entities (foreign institutions) are not eligible to apply.non-domestic (non-u.s.) components of u.s. organizations are not eligible to apply.foreign components, as defined in the nih grants policy statement, may be allowed.applicant organizationsapplicant organizations must complete and maintain the following registrations as described in the sf 424 (r&r) application guide to be eligible to apply for or receive an award. all registrations must be completed prior to the application being submitted. registration can take 6 weeks or more, so applicants should begin the registration process as soon as possible. the nih policy on late submission of grant applications states that failure to complete registrations in advance of a due date is not a valid reason for a late submission.program directors/principal investigators (pd(s)/pi(s))all pd(s)/pi(s) must have an era commons account. pd(s)/pi(s) should work with their organizational officials to either create a new account or to affiliate their existing account with the applicant organization in era commons. if the pd/pi is also the organizational signing official, they must have two distinct era commons accounts, one for each role. obtaining an era commons account can take up to 2 weeks.any individual(s) with the skills, knowledge, and resources necessary to carry out the proposed research as the program director(s)/principal investigator(s) (pd(s)/pi(s)) is invited to work with his/her organization to develop an application for support. individuals from underrepresented racial and ethnic groups as well as individuals with disabilities are always encouraged to apply for nih support.under the sbir program, for both phase i and phase ii, the primary employment of the pd/pi must be with the small business concern at the time of award and during the conduct of the proposed project. for projects with multiple pds/pis, at least one must meet the primary employment requirement. occasionally, deviations from this requirement may occur.for the sttr program, the pd(s)/pi(s) may be employed with the sbc or the single, “partnering” non-profit research institution as long as s/he has a formal appointment with or commitment to the applicant sbc, which is characterized by an official relationship between the sbc and that individual. such a relationship does not necessarily involve a salary or other form of remuneration the primary employment of the pd/pi must be with the sbc or the research institution (where they are pd/pi at) at the time of award and during the conduct of the proposed project.each pd/pi must commit a minimum of 10% effort to the project.the sf424 (r&r) sbir/sttr application guide should be referenced for specific details on eligibility requirements. for institutions/organizations proposing multiple pds/pis, see multiple principal investigators section of the sf424 (r&r) sbir/sttr application guide.number of applicationsapplicant organizations may submit more than one application, provided that each application is scientifically distinct.nih will not accept similar grant applications with essentially the same research focus from the same applicant organization. this includes derivative or multiple applications that propose to develop a single product, process, or service that, with non-substantive modifications, can be applied to a variety of purposes. applicants may not simultaneously submit identical/essentially identical applications under both this funding opportunity and any other hhs funding opportunity, including the sbir and sttr parent announcements.the nih will not accept duplicate or highly overlapping applications under review at the same time. this means that the nih will not accept:a phase i awardee may submit a phase ii application either before or after expiration of the phase i budget period, unless the awardee elects to submit a phase i and phase ii application concurrently under the fast-track procedure. to maintain eligibility to seek phase ii or iib support, a phase i awardee should submit a phase ii application, and a phase ii awardee should submit a phase iib application, within the first six due dates following the expiration of the phase i or ii budget period, respectively.in phase ii, normally, one-half or 50% of the research or analytical effort is carried out by the small business concern. the total amount of consultant and contractual arrangements to third parties for portions of the scientific and technical effort is generally not more than 50% of the total phase ii amount requested (direct, f&a/indirect, and fee).we encourage you to contact a program officer listed in section vii with questions about this because occasionally, deviations from these requirements may occur, and must be approved in writing by the funding agreement officer after consultation with the agency sbir program manager/coordinatora small business concern may subcontract a portion of its sbir or sttr award to a federal laboratory within the limits above. a federal laboratory, as defined in 15 u.s.c. § 3703, means any laboratory, any federally funded research and development center, or any center established under 15 u.s.c. §§ 3705 & 3707 that is owned, leased, or otherwise used by a federal agency and funded by the federal government, whether operated by the government or by a contractor.the basis for determining the percentage of work to be performed by each of the cooperative parties in phase i or phase ii will be the total of the requested costs attributable to each party, unless otherwise described and justified in “consortium/contractual arrangements” of the phs 398 research plan component of sf424 (r&r) application forms.additional details are contained in the sf424 (r&r) sbir/sttr application guide.the application forms package specific to this opportunity must be accessed through assist, grants.gov workspace or an institutional system-to-system solution. links to apply using assist or grants.gov workspace are available in part 1 of this foa. see your administrative office for instructions if you plan to use an institutional system-to-system solution.it is critical that applicants follow the sbir/sttr (b) instructions in the sf424 (r&r) sbir/sttr application guide, except where instructed in this funding opportunity announcement to do otherwise. conformance to the requirements in the application guide is required and strictly enforced. applications that are out of compliance with these instructions may be delayed or not accepted for review.although a letter of intent is not required, is not binding, and does not enter into the review of a subsequent application, the information that it contains allows ic staff to estimate the potential review workload and plan the review.by the date listed in part 1. overview information, prospective applicants are asked to submit a letter of intent that includes the following information:the letter of intent should be sent to: emily caporello, ph.d. national institute of neurological disorders and stroke (ninds) telephone: 301-496-1778 email: emily.caporello@nih.govall page limitations described in the sf424 (r&r) sbir/sttr application guide and the table of page limits must be followed.note: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023, the data management and sharing (dms) plan will be attached in the other plan(s) attachment in forms-h subsequent application forms packages. for due dates on or before january 24, 2023, the data sharing plan and genomic data sharing plan gds) will continue to be attached in the resource sharing plan attachment in forms-g application forms packages.the following section supplements the instructions found in the sf424 (r&r) sbir/sttr application guide and should be used for preparing an application to this foa.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) sbir/sttr application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) sbir/sttr application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) sbir/sttr application guide must be followed with the following additional instructions:other attachments:1. sbir application certification for small business concerns majority-owned by multiple venture capital operating companies, hedge funds, or private equity firmsapplicant small business concerns that are majority-owned by multiple venture capital operating companies, hedge funds, or private equity firms (e.g. majority vcoc-owned) are required to submit a certification at time of their application submission per the sbir policy directive. follow the instructions below.applicants small business concerns who are more than 50% directly owned and controlled by one or more individuals (who are citizens or permanent resident aliens of the united states), other business concerns (each of which is more than 50% directly owned and controlled by individuals who are citizens or permanent resident aliens of the united states), or any combination of these (i.e. not majority vcoc-owned) should not fill out this certification and should not attach it their application package.2. fundraising plan documentation: documents related to third-party-investors and their commitment (to be included in support of the commercialization plan)include documentation of support from third-party investors such as term sheets or redacted bank statements or other appropriate documents (other than letters of support). collate all such documents in one pdf file (with the list of attached documents at the beginning). use filename "third-party investors". (note that this filename will become a bookmark in the application.)3. regulatory plan documentation – applications that do not include this will be withdrawn and not reviewed.applicants must provide a regulatory plan describing the regulatory pathway that is being or will be pursued and a timeline for achieving regulatory approval with discrete milestones, or clear reasoning indicating the trial uses a non-regulated intervention. applicants should submit evidence that they have contacted the appropriate regulatory authority and that their research plan and objectives follow the relevant requirements or guidance of that authority. examples that provide evidence of appropriate interactions are: 1) letters or emails between the sbc and the appropriate fda center personnel 2) meeting minutes concerning a pre-submission meeting or regarding a 510(k), ide, pma, hde, bla, ind, or nda application.the applicant should provide documentation indicating their intervention falls into one of the following scenarios:(a) the protocol has been submitted under an open ind and the ind is not under full or partial hold. under this scenario, applicants must provide documentation such as a "may proceed" email or letter from the fda.(b) the protocol has been submitted as an original ide or as a new study under an open ide, and fda has fully approved the ide or ide supplement. under this scenario, applicants must provide documentation of an ide or ide supplement full approval letter from the fda.(c) the protocol has been submitted under an ind and is on full or partial hold. under this scenario applicants must provide full documentation from the fda on the reasons for hold and the fda recommendations. applicants should discuss how they intend to address the hold issues and when they believe they will have fda approval to proceed with trial implementation.(d) the protocol has been submitted as an original ide or as a new study under an open ide, and fda has conditionally approved the ide or ide supplement. under this scenario applicants must provide full documentation from the fda on the conditions of approval. applicants should discuss how they intend to address these conditions and when they believe they will have fda approval to proceed with trial implementation.(e) the protocol is exempt from an ind. under this scenario applicants must provide a copy of the exemption letter from the fda.(f) the protocol is either exempt from the ide regulations or does not require ide approval because it is determined to be nonsignificant risk. under this scenario applicants must provide either an ide exemption letter or a copy of the risk determination letter from the fda. for devices, if the irb has determined that the device is non-significant risk, documentation from the irb is acceptable.(g) the study is of non-regulated intervention, including surgical and behavioral interventions.applications that do not include this information will be withdrawn and not reviewed. prior to grant award, awardees who do not have an exemption from the fda must provide any additional fda correspondence regarding the status of the protocol to the ninds, especially if the trial has been placed under full or partial hold.sbir/sttr informationcommercialization plan: all applicants are expected to describe a realistic plan (extending beyond sbir phase iib), which outlines how and when full commercialization can be accomplished. the full commercialization of the product/technology should be carried out with non-sbir funds.the following subsections with the headings should be included within the commercialization plan, in addition to the requirements listed in the sf424 application guide:a) value of the sbir/sttr project, expected outcomes, and impact: follow the instructions provided in the sf424 application guide.b) company: follow the instructions provided in the sf424 application guide, with the following additions: an objective of the sbir and sttr programs is to foster and encourage participation in innovation and entrepreneurship by socially and economically disadvantaged persons and women-owned small businesses. describe the company’s approach to attract and retain new and senior employees with diverse backgrounds underrepresented in the in the entrepreneurial, biomedical, behavioral, or clinical research workforce (see https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/notice-files/not-od-20-031.html). such individuals may include those from underrepresented racial and ethnic groups, those with disabilities, women, and those from disadvantaged backgrounds (https://www.sba.gov/contracting/government-contracting-programs/8a-business-development-program/eligibility-requirements/social-disadvantage-eligibility).examples of items that advance inclusivity at the research organization can include, but are not limited to:c) market, customer, and competition: follow the instructions provided in the sf424 application guide.d) intellectual property (ip) protection: follow the instructions provided in the sf424 application guide. applicants are encouraged to prepare this section of the application in consultation with partnering institution's technology transfer officials, if applicable.applicants should describe the ip landscape surrounding their investigational drug, biologic or therapeutic device. applicants should describe any known constraints that could impede the development of their investigational drug, biologic, or therapeutic device (e.g., certain restrictions under transfer or sharing agreements, applicants' previous or present ip filings and publications, similar technologies that are under patent and/or on the market, etc.) and how these issues could be addressed. if the applicants propose using an investigational drug, biologic, device, or technology whose ip is not owned by the small business, applicants should include a letter from any entities owning the ip indicating there will not be any limitations imposed on the studies or the product which would impede achieving the goals of this funding program.if patents pertinent to the investigational drug, biologic, or therapeutic device being developed under this application have been filed, the applicant should indicate the details of filing dates, what types of patents are filed, and application status, and associated uspto links, if applicable.applicants should discuss future ip filing plans. for a multiple-pd/pi, multiple-institution application, applicants should describe the infrastructure of each institution for bringing the technologies to practical application and for coordinating these efforts (e.g., licensing, managing ip) among the institutions, consistent with achieving the goals of the program. applicants should clarify how ip will be shared or otherwise managed if there are multiple pd/pis and institutions involved, consistent with achieving the goals of the program.e) finance plan [this section replaces section e finance plan described in the sf424 application guide]. applicants are expected to provide a fundraising plan including the following information:the anticipated schedule for receiving independent third-party investor funds, including any relevant terms and conditions if available. the ninds considers the raising of independent third-party investor funds to be an important means to facilitate and accelerate the capital-intensive steps that are required to commercialize new products/technologies emerging from nih-funded sbir/sttr phase ii projects. as such, the ninds expects that applicants for the sbir phase iib will secure substantial independent third-party investor funds. ninds expects companies working in small markets (as defined above in section i. purpose) to secure independent third-party funding equal to or greater than one-third of the ninds funds being requested throughout the project period. for all other projects, it is expected that the level of this independent third-party funding will be equal to or greater than the ninds funds being requested throughout the phase iib bridge award project period. examples of third-party investors include, but are not necessarily limited to, another company, a venture capital firm, an individual “angel” investor, a foundation, a university, a research institution, a state or local government, strategic or industry partner, or any combination of the above. third-party investors generally should not include owners of the applicant sbc, their family members, and/or “affiliates” of the applicant sbc. revenue will be considered on a case-by-case basis. independent third-party investor funds generally does not include in-kind support and/or intangible assets,. applicants should clearly indicate within their third-party fundraising plan the total amount of funding that will be secured from the preferred sources listed above sbir-eligible public companies may include as part of their fundraising plan the issuance of stock. in such a case, the preferred documentation is a letter of commitment, signed by the chairman of the board of directors, which stipulates the following: (1) the amount of capital raised from the issuance of stock; (2) the amount of capital that will be dedicated to the proposed project under this foa; (3) sufficient information regarding the use of the dedicated capital to demonstrate a substantial, value-added contribution toward the development and commercialization of the product/technology to be developed under this foa (see instructions below under “use of third-party investment funds”). applicants are expected to document their matching funds (or plans for raising them) as concretely as possible. for example, plans to raise additional funds from venture capital and/or strategic partners should name specific companies.f) production and marketing plan: follow the instructions provided in the sf424 application guideg) revenue stream: follow the instructions provided in the sf424 application guideh) statement of need applicants must provide a concise “statement of need”. this statement is expected to provide answers to the questions listed below.i) sbir/sttr commercialization history applicants should provide an sbir/sttr commercialization history that addresses the questions listed below. the following questions should be addressed for all sbir/sttr awards received from any federal agency.j.) use of third-party investment funds the federal funds provided by a sbir phase iib award can only be used for advancing the research-related elements of the project. the use of any third-party investor funds will be at the discretion of the sbc. applicants should provide sufficient information regarding the use of any third-party support to demonstrate a substantial, value-added contribution toward the development and commercialization of the product/technology. in particular, applicants are expected to address the following questions regarding the use of third-party funds:all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) sbir/sttr application guide must be followed.for applications proposing clinical trials:clinical trials must be directed by pd(s)/pi(s) with experience in the conduct of clinical trials and expertise in the disease area. such experience must be documented, including timely submission of primary publications from previous trials, ideally within one year of completion of subject follow-up. the application should also indicate the prior experience of other study team members who are senior/key personnel in clinical trial design and implementation.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) sbir/sttr application guide must be followed.for applications proposing clinical trials:applicants should budget for the services of a medical safety monitor (who should be independent of the study investigators) to provide timely review of serious adverse events (saes). additionally, if it is anticipated that the ninds will decide to appoint a data and safety monitoring board (dsmb), applicants should expect an annual one-day, in-person meeting of the dsmb and should budget to allow up to 6 persons from the investigator team to attend. the travel expenses of dsmb members and the meeting room rental will be handled by ninds.if some trial costs are to be borne by sources other than nih, these contributions must be presented in detail in the budget justification. these costs borne by third parties do not constitute cost-sharing as defined in the current nih grants policy statement and should not be presented as part of the requested budget.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) sbir/sttr application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) sbir/sttr application guide must be followed.other plan(s):note: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023, the data management and sharing plan will be attached in the other plan(s) attachment in forms-h and subsequent application forms packages. for due dates on or before january 24, 2023, the data sharing plan and genomic data sharing plan gds) will continue to be attached in the resource sharing plan attachment in forms-g application forms packages.all applicants planning research (funded or conducted in whole or in part by nih) that results in the generation of scientific data are required to comply with the instructions for the data management and sharing plan. all small business innovation research (sbir) and small business technology transfer (sttr) applicants are required to address a data management and sharing plan, regardless of the amount of direct costs requested for any one year. however, sbir and sttr recipients may retain the rights to data generated during the performance of an sbir or sttr award for up to 20 years after the award date, per the small business innovation research (sbir) and small business technology transfer (sttr) program policy directive. an acceptable data management and sharing plan can reference and incorporate these data rights. further information about sbir and sttr data rights are enumerated in the nih gps.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) sbir/sttr application guide must be followed.with the following additional instructions:research strategy: the scientific rationale and preliminary data supporting the proposed clinical trial, including results from preclinical and clinical studies, and an overview of the current status of therapeutics for the disease, must be included in the application. applicants should ensure that the data supporting the proposed trial meet the nih scientific rigor guidelines (see http://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/notice-files/not-od-15-103.html). if a proposed trial plans to study the intervention(s) based upon preclinical mechanistic studies, results from such studies should be summarized and referenced. if preclinical data (e.g. animal studies) do not meet the rigor guidelines, the applicant should discuss the limitations of those data and any plans to address those gaps in knowledge through the current study design.significance and biological relevance: the significance of the proposed clinical trial must be clearly stated, and a discussion of the risks and benefits should be included. it is particularly important to discuss how results of the trial (positive or negative) will advance product development. the application should explain why the proposed trial is necessary to inform the design of a subsequent clinical trial for efficacy.preliminary studies: the major findings of the preclinical and clinical studies that led to the proposed clinical trial should be presented and discussed in the context of the nih rigor guidelines. data from previous studies that support the proposed hypotheses and the feasibility of the trial should also be included. study conceptualization and planning must be at a stage sufficient to allow for an assessment of the likelihood of trial success.approach: a concise summary of the proposed research plan should include:letters of supportinclude letters of support documenting commitments from third-party investors. letters of support from these institutional partners should indicate any actual or planned/conditional financial commitment as a specific dollar figure or range, consistent with the instructions provided under section iv.2, other attachments, “fundraising plan documentation”. appropriate documentation of third-party investor commitment(s) may include a conditional letter of support stating that the third-party funding is contingent upon nih selecting the application for an award.sbir-eligible public companies may include as part of their fundraising plan the issuance of stock. in such a case, the preferred documentation is a letter of support, signed by the chairman of the board of directors, which stipulates the following: (1) the amount of capital raised from the issuance of stock; (2) the amount of capital that will be dedicated to the proposed project under this foa; (3) sufficient information regarding the use of the dedicated capital to demonstrate a substantial, value-added contribution toward the development and commercialization of the product or service to be developed under this foa.resource sharing plan: individuals are required to comply with the instructions for the resource sharing plans as provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, with the following modification:all applications, regardless of the amount of direct costs requested for any one year, should address a data sharing plan. investigators are expected to include a description of how final research data will be shared, or explain why data-sharing is not possible. applicants are encouraged to discuss data-sharing plans with their nih program contact (see the nih data sharing policy, https://grants.nih.gov/grants/policy/data_sharing/).appendix:note that phase i sbir/sttr appendix materials are not permitted. only limited items are allowed in the appendix of other small business applications. the instructions for the appendix of the research plan are described in the sf424 (r&r) application guide; any instructions provided here are in addition to the sf424 (r&r) application guide instructions.when involving human subjects research, clinical research, and/or nih-defined clinical trials follow all instructions for the phs human subjects and clinical trials information form in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, with the following additional instructions:if you answered “yes” to the question “are human subjects involved?” on the r&r other project information form, you must include at least one human subjects study record using the study record: phs human subjects and clinical trials information form or delayed onset study record.study record: phs human subjects and clinical trials informationall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.section 2 - study population characteristics2.5 recruitment and retention planfor a multicenter trial, applicants should survey the potential clinical sites to ensure that recruitment targets can be met. present the survey results using a table where the rows represent potential clinical sites and the columns include responses to questions from the survey. the survey questions will depend on the nature of the trial and the protocol-specified screening procedures but might include these:has the pd/pi previously recruited patients with this disease into a clinical trial?does this site have all necessary equipment to complete eligibility evaluations?if not, how far (in miles) will patients need to travel to complete eligibility evaluations?what is the total number of patients seen at this site in the past 12 months?how many of these appear to meet the pre-screening eligibility criteria?how many of these are likely to be found fully eligible and consent to be enrolled?2.7 study timelineapplicants should provide detailed project performance and timeline objectives. the proposed milestones must include achievable goals for each stage of the project as follows:completion of start-up activities (finalization of protocol, contracting of sites, registration in clinicaltrials.gov, completion of any final regulatory approvals, etc.)earliest possible enrollment dateenrollment of 25%, 50%, 75% and 100% of the targeted sample sizecompletion of all study data collectioncompletion of primary endpoint and secondary endpoint data analysescompletion of final study reportpublication of primary study resultsreporting of results in clinicaltrials.govsubmission of final public use dataset to nindsif an adaptive design is to be used, indicate when adaptions will be considered.section 3 - protection and monitoring plans3.3 data and safety monitoring planapplicants should refer to the ninds guidelines for data and safety monitoring in clinical trials (https://www.ninds.nih.gov/funding/apply-funding/application-support-library/ninds-guidelines-data-and-safety-monitoring) when describing their dsmp.3.5 overall structure of the study teamclinical site monitoring plan. describe a clinical site monitoring plan including how site adherence to the protocol and consenting process will be ensured, who is responsible for site monitoring, the frequency of planned monitoring activities, and the plan for handling deficiencies. also describe plans for training and, if needed, certifying site personnel to complete study procedures.data management plan. applicants should describe a data management plan including the methods and systems for data collection and quality control, and for ensuring data confidentiality and privacy, and the process for locking the final dataset and providing for data sharing, as appropriate and consistent with achieving the goals of the program. describe the plans, if any, to use non-traditional data collection approaches (e.g., digital/mobile/sensor technologies and web-based systems) and why these are appropriate.describe the composition and role of any advisory committees.discuss the responsibilities, oversight and coordination of any centers or cores.describe any subcontracts or service agreements for personnel or facilities.if applicable, include a statement regarding how clinical and translational science award (ctsa) program (https://ctsacentral.org/) resources will be leveraged. describe what ctsa services will be used at each participating ctsa site and how the use of the ctsa impacts the trial budget.section 4 - protocol synopsis4.1. study design 4.1.a. detailed descriptionas applicable, state how the following resources for clinical research will be utilized:ninds common data elements (https://www.commondataelements.ninds.nih.gov/#page=default);neuroqol (http://www.healthmeasures.net/explore-measurement-systems/neuro-qol);nih toolbox (http://www.healthmeasures.net/explore-measurement-systems/nih-toolbox); andpromis (http://www.healthmeasures.net/explore-measurement-systems/promis).for later-stage exploratory studies, state the go/no-go criteria that will be used at the end of this exploratory trial to decide whether to proceed with a subsequent efficacy clinical trial.4.3 statistical design and powerstatistical analysis plan (sap). applicants should provide a statistical analysis plan (sap) including details on the analyses specified in the study protocol, including a description of how the statistical analysis of the primary, secondary and other endpoints will be performed, how the sample size was determined, how missing data will be handled, plans for interim analyses for safety, efficacy and futility, plans for recalculation of the sample size midway through the trial (if applicable), etc. if computer simulations were used to investigate the operating characteristics of complex clinical trial designs (such as adaptive designs), to choose between alternative outcome measures, or to determine sample size, accounting for the impact of noncompliance, missing data, subject eligibility criteria, etc., sufficient details about the simulations should be provided if the sap. it is particularly important to discuss the range of conditions that were considered in the simulation and why this range was considered appropriate, how robust the findings were across the range of conditions considered, and how the study will adjust for any design deficiencies (e.g., bias, loss of power) the simulations revealed.note: delayed onset does not apply to a study that can be described but will not start immediately (i.e., delayed start). all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) sbir/sttr application guide must be followed.see part 1. section iii.1 for information regarding the requirement for obtaining a unique entity identifier and for completing and maintaining active registrations in system for award management (sam), era commons, and grants.gov.part i. overview information contains information about key dates and time. applicants are encouraged to submit applications before the due date to ensure they have time to make any application corrections that might be necessary for successful submission. when a submission date falls on a weekend or federal holiday, the application deadline is automatically extended to the next business day.organizations must submit applications to grants.gov (the online portal to find and apply for grants across all federal agencies). applicants must then complete the submission process by tracking the status of the application in the era commons, nih’s electronic system for grants administration. nih and grants.gov systems check the application against many of the application instructions upon submission. errors must be corrected and a changed/corrected application must be submitted to grants.gov on or before the application due date and time. if a changed/corrected application is submitted after the deadline, the application will be considered late. applications that miss the due date and time are subjected to the nih policy on late application submission.applicants are responsible for viewing their application before the due date in the era commons to ensure accurate and successful submission.information on the submission process and a definition of on-time submission are provided in the sf424 (r&r) sbir/sttr application guide.this initiative is not subject to intergovernmental review.all nih awards are subject to the terms and conditions, cost principles, and other considerations described in the nih grants policy statement.pre-award costs are allowable only as described in the nih grants policy statement.applications must be submitted electronically following the instructions described in the sf424 (r&r) sbir/sttr application guide. paper applications will not be accepted.applicants must complete all required registrations before the application due date. section iii. eligibility information contains information about registration.for assistance with your electronic application or for more information on the electronic submission process, visit how to apply – application guide. if you encounter a system issue beyond your control that threatens your ability to complete the submission process on-time, you must follow the dealing with system issues guidance. for assistance with application submission, contact the application submission contacts in section vii.important reminders:all pd(s)/pi(s) must include their era commons id in the credential field of the senior/key person profile component of the sf424(r&r) application package. failure to register in the commons and to include a valid pd/pi commons id in the credential field will prevent the successful submission of an electronic application to nih.the applicant organization must ensure that the duns number it provides on the application is the same number used in the organization’s profile in the era commons and for the system for award management (sam). additional information may be found in the sf424 (r&r) sbir/sttr application guide.see more tips for avoiding common errors.upon receipt, applications will be evaluated for completeness and compliance with application instructions by the center for scientific review, nih and responsiveness by components of participating organizations, nih. applications that are incomplete, non-compliant and/or nonresponsive will not be reviewed..applications not-responsive to this foa:note: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023, the data sharing plan and genomic data sharing plan (gds) as part of the resource sharing plan will not be evaluated at time of review.only the review criteria described below will be considered in the review process. applications submitted to the nih in support of the nih mission are evaluated for scientific and technical merit through the nih peer review system.in addition, for applications involving clinical trials:a proposed clinical trial application may include study design, methods, and intervention that are not by themselves innovative but address important questions or unmet needs. additionally, the results of the clinical trial may indicate that further clinical development of the intervention is unwarranted or lead to new avenues of scientific investigation.reviewers will provide an overall impact score to reflect their assessment of the likelihood for the project to exert a sustained, powerful influence on the research field(s) involved, in consideration of the following review criteria and additional review criteria (as applicable for the project proposed).reviewers will consider each of the review criteria below in the determination of scientific merit, and give a separate score for each. an application does not need to be strong in all categories to be judged likely to have major scientific impact. for example, a project that by its nature is not innovative may be essential to advance a field.significancedoes the project address an important problem or a critical barrier to progress in the field?is the prior research that serves as the key support for the proposed project rigorous? if the aims of the project are achieved, how will scientific knowledge, technical capability, and/or clinical practice be improved? how will successful completion of the aims change the concepts, methods, technologies, treatments, services, or preventative interventions that drive this field? does the proposed project have commercial potential to lead to a marketable product, process or service? (in the case of phase ii, fast-track, and phase ii competing renewals, does the commercialization plan demonstrate a high probability of commercialization?)foa specific criteria:in addition, for applications involving clinical trialsare the scientific rationale and need for a clinical trial to test the proposed hypothesis or intervention well supported by preliminary data, clinical and/or preclinical studies, or information in the literature or knowledge of biological mechanisms? for trials focusing on clinical or public health endpoints, is this clinical trial necessary for testing the safety, efficacy or effectiveness of an intervention that could lead to a change in clinical practice, community behaviors or health care policy? for trials focusing on mechanistic, behavioral, physiological, biochemical, or other biomedical endpoints, is this trial needed to advance scientific understanding?investigator(s)are the pd(s)/pi(s), collaborators, and other researchers well suited to the project? if early stage investigators or those in the early stages of independent careers, do they have appropriate experience and training? if established, have they demonstrated an ongoing record of accomplishments that have advanced their field(s)? if the project is collaborative or multi-pd/pi, do the investigators have complementary and integrated expertise; are their leadership approach, governance and organizational structure appropriate for the project?foa specific criteria: to what extent do the prior experience and qualifications of the project team members lend confidence that the team will be successful in commercializing the proposed product/technology? for example, how successful have the pd(s)/pi(s) been in commercializing other sbir/sttr-supported technologies and discoveries in the past?in addition, for applications involving clinical trialswith regard to the proposed leadership for the project, do the pd/pi(s) and key personnel have the expertise, experience, and ability to organize, manage and implement the proposed clinical trial and meet milestones and timelines? do they have appropriate expertise in study coordination, data management and statistics? for a multicenter trial, is the organizational structure appropriate and does the application identify a core of potential center investigators and staffing for a coordinating center?innovationdoes the application challenge and seek to shift current research or clinical practice paradigms by utilizing novel theoretical concepts, approaches or methodologies, instrumentation, or interventions? are the concepts, approaches or methodologies, instrumentation, or interventions novel to one field of research or novel in a broad sense? is a refinement, improvement, or new application of theoretical concepts, approaches or methodologies, instrumentation, or interventions proposed?in addition, for applications involving clinical trialsdoes the design/research plan include innovative elements, as appropriate, that enhance its sensitivity, potential for information or potential to advance scientific knowledge or clinical practice?approachare the overall strategy, methodology, and analyses well-reasoned and appropriate to accomplish the specific aims of the project? have the investigators included plans to address weaknesses in the rigor of prior research that serves as the key support for the proposed project? have the investigators presented strategies to ensure a robust and unbiased approach, as appropriate for the work proposed? are potential problems, alternative strategies, and benchmarks for success presented? if the project is in the early stages of development, will the strategy establish feasibility and will particularly risky aspects be managed? for a phase i application, are there clear, appropriate, measurable goals (milestones) that should be achieved prior to initiating phase ii? have the investigators presented adequate plans to address relevant biological variables, such as sex, for studies in vertebrate animals or human subjects?foa specific criteria:how promising are the outcomes of the previously funded nih sbir/sttr phase ii project upon which the proposed sbir phase iib is predicated? to what extent does the progress justify the continuation of the development efforts?how appropriate are the proposed milestones for the sbir phase iib in determining whether the awardee has successfully reached the specified goals (e.g., ind filing)? if the proposed project involves advancing the product/technology through the federal regulatory approval process, how sound is the proposed plan to meet these requirements?in addition, for applications involving clinical trialsdoes the application adequately address the following, if applicable:study designis the study design justified and appropriate to address primary and secondary outcome variable(s)/endpoints that will be clear, informative and relevant to the hypothesis being tested? is the scientific rationale/premise of the study based on previously well-designed preclinical and/or clinical research? given the methods used to assign participants and deliver interventions, is the study design adequately powered to answer the research question(s), test the proposed hypothesis/hypotheses, and provide interpretable results? is the trial appropriately designed to conduct the research efficiently? are the study populations (size, gender, age, demographic group), proposed intervention arms/dose, and duration of the trial, appropriate and well justified?are potential ethical issues adequately addressed? is the process for obtaining informed consent or assent appropriate? is the eligible population available? are the plans for recruitment outreach, enrollment, retention, handling dropouts, missed visits, and losses to follow-up appropriate to ensure robust data collection? are the planned recruitment timelines feasible and is the plan to monitor accrual adequate? has the need for randomization (or not), masking (if appropriate), controls, and inclusion/exclusion criteria been addressed? are differences addressed, if applicable, in the intervention effect due to sex/gender and race/ethnicity?are the plans to standardize, assure quality of, and monitor adherence to, the trial protocol and data collection or distribution guidelines appropriate? is there a plan to obtain required study agent(s)? does the application propose to use existing available resources, as applicable?data management and statistical analysisare the planned analyses and statistical approach appropriate for the proposed study design and methods used to assign participants and deliver interventions? are the procedures for data management and quality control of data adequate at clinical site(s) or at center laboratories, as applicable? have the methods for standardization of procedures for data management to assess the effect of the intervention and quality control been addressed? is there a plan to complete data analysis within the proposed period of the award?if the project involves human subjects and/or nih-defined clinical research, are the plans to address1) the protection of human subjects from research risks, and2) inclusion (or exclusion) of individuals on the basis of sex/gender, race, and ethnicity, as well as the inclusion or exclusion of individuals of all ages (including children and older adults), justified in terms of the scientific goals and research strategy proposed?environmentwill the scientific environment in which the work will be done contribute to the probability of success? are the institutional support, equipment and other physical resources available to the investigators adequate for the project proposed? will the project benefit from unique features of the scientific environment, subject populations, or collaborative arrangement?foa specific criteria: have necessary agreements with participating industry partners, if necessary, been established? to what extent does the applicant sbc have the ability to address regulatory issues, either through their own staff members or through appropriate arrangements with external regulatory consultants? if the sbc has received previous sbir/sttr funding from any federal agency, how successful is the company’s track record in commercializing prior sbir/sttr projects?in addition, for applications involving clinical trialsif proposed, are the administrative, data coordinating, enrollment and laboratory/testing centers, appropriate for the trial proposed?does the application adequately address the capability and ability to conduct the trial at the proposed site(s) or centers? are the plans to add or drop enrollment centers, as needed, appropriate?if international site(s) is/are proposed, does the application adequately address the complexity of executing the clinical trial?if multi-sites/centers, is there evidence of the ability of the individual site or center to: (1) enroll the proposed numbers; (2) adhere to the protocol; (3) collect and transmit data in an accurate and timely fashion; and, (4) operate within the proposed organizational structure?as applicable for the project proposed, reviewers will evaluate the following additional items while determining scientific and technical merit, and in providing an overall impact score, but will not give separate scores for these items.commercialization planmarket, customer, and competitionhow compelling is the value proposition, and to what extent does the application demonstrate a substantial market-pull for the technology under development? how well has the applicant described the market niche(s) for the product/technology, and how urgent is the unmet need(s) being addressed? to what extent has the applicant identified realistic, market-based milestones that can be achieved over the next five years?how well has the applicant demonstrated an understanding of the competitive environment in which they plan to sell their product? to what extent has the applicant identified their customers and demonstrated a clear understanding of their needs? how well has the company addressed potential hurdles that may delay or prevent acceptance of their product? how reasonable are the applicant's plans for generating a revenue stream, and how realistic are the revenue projections?companyhow well can the applicant sbc sustain itself and grow as a business? to what extent will the applicant's business alliances and/or corporate partnerships help in facilitating commercialization? for example, will third-party investors play an active role in facilitating the commercialization of the product/technology, and if so to what extent? is an appropriate approach to enhancing diversity and inclusion in the company discussed?intellectual property (ip)how strong is the applicant's intellectual property (ip) portfolio/position (pertinent to the proposed project), and to what extent does the company have a reasonable strategy to protect its ip going forward?fundraising planhow well does the application support the ability of the sbc to establish relationships with third-party investors and/or strategic partners and secure substantial independent third-party investor funds as expected under this foa? ninds expects companies working in small markets to secure independent third-party funding equal to or greater than one-third of the ninds funds being requested throughout the project period. for all other projects, it is expected that the level of this independent third-party funding will be equal to or greater than the ninds funds being requested throughout the phase iib bridge award project period.how detailed is the documentation (e.g., term sheet) that has been provided by the applicant to corroborate the fundraising plan? to what extent has the applicant demonstrated that the third-party investor support will provide a substantial, value-added contribution toward the development and commercialization of the product/technology? for example, has the applicant described the specific activities that the third-party investor funds will support?if the third-party investors have attached restrictions and/or triggers and/or milestones to future payments, then to what extent have these restrictions been clearly stipulated in the application? in general, have the terms of the future investment rounds been sufficiently described, thus demonstrating a high level of confidence in the sbc’s ability to execute the overall fundraising plan?specific to applications proposing clinical trials:study timelineis the study timeline described in detail, taking into account start-up activities, the anticipated rate of enrollment, and planned follow-up assessment? is the projected timeline feasible and well justified? does the project incorporate efficiencies and utilize existing resources (e.g., ctsas, practice-based research networks, electronic medical records, administrative database, or patient registries) to increase the efficiency of participant enrollment and data collection, as appropriate?are potential challenges and corresponding solutions discussed (e.g., strategies that can be implemented in the event of enrollment shortfalls)?phase ii applicationsnot applicable.phase i/phase ii fast-track applicationsnot applicable.protections for human subjectsfor research that involves human subjects but does not involve one of the categories of research that are exempt under 45 cfr part 46, the committee will evaluate the justification for involvement of human subjects and the proposed protections from research risk relating to their participation according to the following five review criteria: 1) risk to subjects, 2) adequacy of protection against risks, 3) potential benefits to the subjects and others, 4) importance of the knowledge to be gained, and 5) data and safety monitoring for clinical trials.for research that involves human subjects and meets the criteria for one or more of the categories of research that are exempt under 45 cfr part 46, the committee will evaluate: 1) the justification for the exemption, 2) human subjects involvement and characteristics, and 3) sources of materials. for additional information on review of the human subjects section, please refer to the guidelines for the review of human subjects.inclusion of women, minorities, and individuals across the lifespanwhen the proposed project involves human subjects and/or nih-defined clinical research, the committee will evaluate the proposed plans for the inclusion (or exclusion) of individuals on the basis of sex/gender, race, and ethnicity, as well as the inclusion (or exclusion) of individuals of all ages (including children and older adults) to determine if it is justified in terms of the scientific goals and research strategy proposed. for additional information on review of the inclusion section, please refer to the guidelines for the review of inclusion in clinical research.vertebrate animalsthe committee will evaluate the involvement of live vertebrate animals as part of the scientific assessment according to the following criteria: (1) description of proposed procedures involving animals, including species, strains, ages, sex, and total number to be used; (2) justifications for the use of animals versus alternative models and for the appropriateness of the species proposed; (3) interventions to minimize discomfort, distress, pain and injury; and (4) justification for euthanasia method if not consistent with the avma guidelines for the euthanasia of animals. reviewers will assess the use of chimpanzees as they would any other application proposing the use of vertebrate animals. for additional information on review of the vertebrate animals section, please refer to the worksheet for review of the vertebrate animal section.biohazardsreviewers will assess whether materials or procedures proposed are potentially hazardous to research personnel and/or the environment, and if needed, determine whether adequate protection is proposed.resubmissionsfor resubmissions, the committee will evaluate the application as now presented, taking into consideration the responses to comments from the previous scientific review group and changes made to the project.phase iib competing renewalsfor phase iib applications, the committee will consider the progress made in the last funding period.revisionsfor revisions, the committee will consider the appropriateness of the proposed expansion of the scope of the project. if the revision application relates to a specific line of investigation presented in the original application that was not recommended for approval by the committee, then the committee will consider whether the responses to comments from the previous scientific review group are adequate and whether substantial changes are clearly evident.note: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023, the data sharing plan and genomic data sharing plan (gds) as part of the resource sharing plan will not be evaluated at time of review.as applicable for the project proposed, reviewers will consider each of the following items, but will not give scores for these items, and should not consider them in providing an overall impact score.select agent researchreviewers will assess the information provided in this section of the application, including 1) the select agent(s) to be used in the proposed research, 2) the registration status of all entities where select agent(s) will be used, 3) the procedures that will be used to monitor possession use and transfer of select agent(s), and 4) plans for appropriate biosafety, biocontainment, and security of the select agent(s).reviewers will comment on whether the following resource sharing plans, or the rationale for not sharing the following types of resources, are reasonable: (1) data sharing plan; (2) sharing model organisms; and (3) genomic data sharing plan.authentication of key biological and/or chemical resources:for projects involving key biological and/or chemical resources, reviewers will comment on the brief plans proposed for identifying and ensuring the validity of those resources.budget and period of supportreviewers will consider whether the budget and the requested period of support are fully justified and reasonable in relation to the proposed research.applications will be evaluated for scientific and technical merit by (an) appropriate scientific review group(s) convened by the center for scientific review, in accordance with nih peer review policy and procedures, using the stated review criteria. assignment to a scientific review group will be shown in the era commons.as part of the scientific peer review, all applications will receive a written critique.applications may undergo a committee process in which only those applications deemed to have the highest scientific and technical merit (generally the top half of applications under review) will be discussed and assigned an overall impact score.applications will be assigned on the basis of established phs referral guidelines to the appropriate nih institute or center. applications will compete for available funds with all other recommended applications. following initial peer review, recommended applications will receive a second level of review by the appropriate national advisory council or board. the following will be considered in making funding decisions:information regarding the disposition of applications is available in the nih grants policy statement.if the application is under consideration for funding, nih will request "just-in-time" information from the applicant as described in the nih grants policy statement.a formal notification in the form of a notice of award (noa) will be provided to the applicant organization for successful applications. the noa signed by the grants management officer is the authorizing document and will be sent via email to the recipient's business official.awardees must comply with any funding restrictions described in section iv.5. funding restrictions. selection of an application for award is not an authorization to begin performance. any costs incurred before receipt of the noa are at the recipient's risk. these costs may be reimbursed only to the extent considered allowable pre-award costs.any application awarded in response to this foa will be subject to terms and conditions found on the award conditions and information for nih grants website. this includes any recent legislation and policy applicable to awards that is highlighted on this website.all nih grant and cooperative agreement awards include the nih grants policy statement as part of the noa. for these terms of award, see the nih grants policy statement part ii: terms and conditions of nih grant awards, subpart a: general and part ii: terms and conditions of nih grant awards, subpart b: terms and conditions for specific types of grants, recipients, and activities. more information is provided at award conditions and information for nih grants.recipients of federal financial assistance (ffa) from hhs must administer their programs in compliance with federal civil rights laws that prohibit discrimination on the basis of race, color, national origin, disability, age and, in some circumstances, religion, conscience, and sex. this includes ensuring programs are accessible to persons with limited english proficiency. the hhs office for civil rights provides guidance on complying with civil rights laws enforced by hhs. please see https://www.hhs.gov/civil-rights/for-providers/provider-obligations/index.html and http://www.hhs.gov/ocr/civilrights/understanding/section1557/index.html.hhs recognizes that research projects are often limited in scope for many reasons that are nondiscriminatory, such as the principal investigator’s scientific interest, funding limitations, recruitment requirements, and other considerations. thus, criteria in research protocols that target or exclude certain populations are warranted where nondiscriminatory justifications establish that such criteria are appropriate with respect to the health or safety of the subjects, the scientific study design, or the purpose of the research. for additional guidance regarding how the provisions apply to nih grant programs, please contact the scientific/research contact that is identified in section vii under agency contacts of this foa.please contact the hhs office for civil rights for more information about obligations and prohibitions under federal civil rights laws at https://www.hhs.gov/ocr/about-us/contact-us/index.html or call 1-800-368-1019 or tdd 1-800-537-7697.in accordance with the statutory provisions contained in section 872 of the duncan hunter national defense authorization act of fiscal year 2009 (public law 110-417), nih awards will be subject to the federal awardee performance and integrity information system (fapiis) requirements. fapiis requires federal award making officials to review and consider information about an applicant in the designated integrity and performance system (currently fapiis) prior to making an award. an applicant, at its option, may review information in the designated integrity and performance systems accessible through fapiis and comment on any information about itself that a federal agency previously entered and is currently in fapiis. the federal awarding agency will consider any comments by the applicant, in addition to other information in fapiis, in making a judgement about the applicant’s integrity, business ethics, and record of performance under federal awards when completing the review of risk posed by applicants as described in 45 cfr part 75.205 “federal awarding agency review of risk posed by applicants.” this provision will apply to all nih grants and cooperative agreements except fellowships.the office of inspector general hotline accepts tips from all sources about potential fraud, waste, abuse and mismanagement in department of health & human services programs. the reporting individual should indicate that the fraud, waste and/or abuse concerns an sbir/sttr grant or contract, if relevant. report fraud.not applicabledata management and sharingnote: the nih policy for data management and sharing is effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023.consistent with the nih policy for data management and sharing, when data management and sharing is applicable to the award, recipients will be required to adhere to the data management and sharing requirements as outlined in the nih grants policy statement (gps). upon the approval of a data management and sharing plan, it is required for recipients to implement the plan as described. sbir and sttr recipients may retain the rights to data generated during the performance of an sbir or sttr award for up to 20 years after the award date, per the small business innovation research (sbir) and small business technology transfer (sttr) program policy directive. an acceptable data management and sharing plan can reference and incorporate these data rights. further information about sbir and sttr data rights are enumerated in the nih gps.nih requires that sbir/sttr recipients submit the following reports within 120 days of the end of the grant budget period unless the recipient is under an extension. when multiple years are involved, awardees will be required to submit the research performance progress report (rppr) annually and financial statements as required in the nih grants policy statement.failure to submit timely final reports may affect future funding to the organization or awards with the same pd/pi.the federal funding accountability and transparency act of 2006 (transparency act), includes a requirement for awardees of federal grants to report information about first-tier subawards and executive compensation under federal assistance awards issued in fy2011 or later. all awardees of applicable nih grants and cooperative agreements are required to report to the federal subaward reporting system (fsrs) available at www.fsrs.gov on all subawards over $25,000. see the nih grants policy statement for additional information on this reporting requirement.in accordance with the regulatory requirements provided at 45 cfr 75.113 and appendix xii to 45 cfr part 75, recipients that have currently active federal grants, cooperative agreements, and procurement contracts from all federal awarding agencies with a cumulative total value greater than $10,000,000 for any period of time during the period of performance of a federal award, must report and maintain the currency of information reported in the system for award management (sam) about civil, criminal, and administrative proceedings in connection with the award or performance of a federal award that reached final disposition within the most recent five-year period. the recipient must also make semiannual disclosures regarding such proceedings. proceedings information will be made publicly available in the designated integrity and performance system (currently fapiis). this is a statutory requirement under section 872 of public law 110-417, as amended (41 u.s.c. 2313). as required by section 3010 of public law 111-212, all information posted in the designated integrity and performance system on or after april 15, 2011, except past performance reviews required for federal procurement contracts, will be publicly available. full reporting requirements and procedures are found in appendix xii to 45 cfr part 75 – award term and conditions for recipient integrity and performance matters.we encourage inquiries concerning this funding opportunity and welcome the opportunity to answer questions from potential applicants.era service desk (questions regarding assist, era commons, application errors and warnings, documenting system problems that threaten submission by the due date, and post-submission issues)finding help online: http://grants.nih.gov/support/ (preferred method of contact) telephone: 301-402-7469 or 866-504-9552 (toll free)general grants information (questions regarding application instructions, application processes, and nih grant resources) email: grantsinfo@nih.gov (preferred method of contact) telephone: 301-637-3015grants.gov customer support (questions regarding grants.gov registration and workspace) contact center telephone: 800-518-4726 email: support@grants.govsba company registry (questions regarding required registration at the sba company registry and for technical questions or issues) website to email: http://sbir.gov/feedback?type=regemily caporello, ph.d. national institute of neurological disorders and stroke (ninds) telephone: 301-496-1778 email: emily.caporello@nih.govexamine your era commons account for review assignment and contact information (information appears two weeks after the submission due date).chief grants management officer national institute of neurological disorders and stroke (ninds) email: chiefgrantsmanagementofficer@ninds.nih.govrecently issued trans-nih policy notices may affect your application submission. a full list of policy notices published by nih is provided in the nih guide for grants and contracts. all awards are subject to the terms and conditions, cost principles, and other considerations described in the nih grants policy statement.awards are made under the authorization of sections 301 and 405 of the public health service act as amended (42 usc 241 and 284) and under federal regulations 42 cfr part 52 and 45 cfr part 75.the sbir program is mandated by the small business innovation development act of 1982 (p.l. 97-219), reauthorizing legislation (p.l. 99-443) p.l. 102-564, p.l. 112-81 (sbir/sttr reauthorization act of 2011), as reauthorized and extended under p.l. 114-328, section 1834, and p.l. 115-232. the basic design of the nih sbir program is in accordance with the small business administration (sba) sbir policy directive.weekly toc for this announcement nih funding opportunities and noticesnote: for help accessing pdf, rtf, ms word, excel, powerpoint, audio or video files, see help downloading files.