National Institute of General Medical Sciences (NIGMS) Bridges to the Doctorate (T32)
https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/pa-files/PAR-21-198.html
national institutes of health (nih)national institute of general medical sciences (nigms)bridges to the doctorate research training program (t32)t32 institutional national research service award (nrsa)reissue of par-19-300 - bridges to the doctorate research training program (t32)par-21-198not applicablesee section iii. 3. additional information on eligibility.93.859the goal of the bridges to the doctorate research training program is to develop a diverse pool of scientists earning a ph.d. who have the skills to successfully transition into careers in the biomedical research workforce. this funding opportunity announcement (foa) provides support to eligible, domestic institutions to develop and implement effective, evidence-informed approaches to biomedical training and mentoring that will keep pace with the rapid evolution of the research enterprise. nigms expects that the proposed research training programs will incorporate didactic, research, mentoring, and career development elements to prepare trainees for careers that will have a significant impact on the health-related research needs of the nation.this foa does not allow appointed trainees to lead an independent clinical trial but does allow them to obtain research experience in a clinical trial led by a mentor or co-mentor.april 8, 2021august 28, 2021not applicableseptember 28, 2021; september 27, 2022; september 27, 2023all applications are due by 5:00 pm local time of applicant organization. all types of non-aids applications allowed for this funding opportunity announcement are due on the listed date(s).applicants are encouraged to apply early to allow adequate time to make any corrections to errors found in the application during the submission process by the due date.not applicablefebruary/march 2022, february/march 2023, february/march 2024may 2022, may 2023, may 2024august 2022, august 2023, august 2024september 28, 2023not applicableit is critical that applicants follow the training (t) instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, except where instructed to do otherwise (in this foa or in a notice from the nih guide for grants and contracts). conformance to all requirements (both in the application guide and the foa) is required and strictly enforced. applicants must read and follow all application instructions in the application guide as well as any program-specific instructions noted in section iv. when the program-specific instructions deviate from those in the application guide, follow the program-specific instructions. applications that do not comply with these instructions may be delayed or not accepted for review.there are several options available to submit your application through grants.gov to nih and department of health and human services partners. you must use one of these submission options to access the application forms for this opportunity.part 1. overview information part 2. full text of the announcement section i. funding opportunity description section ii. award information section iii. eligibility information section iv. application and submission information section v. application review information section vi. award administration information section vii. agency contacts section viii. other informationthe overall goal of the nih ruth l. kirschstein national research service award (nrsa) program is to help ensure that a diverse pool of highly trained scientists is available in appropriate scientific disciplines to address the nation's biomedical, behavioral, and clinical research needs. in order to accomplish this goal, nrsa training programs are designed to train individuals to conduct research and to prepare for research careers. more information about nrsa programs may be found at the ruth l. kirschstein national research service award (nrsa) website.the nrsa program has been the primary means of supporting predoctoral and postdoctoral research training programs since enactment of the nrsa legislation in 1974. each program should provide high-quality research training, mentored research experiences, and additional training opportunities that equip trainees with the technical (e.g., appropriate methods, technologies, and quantitative/computational approaches), operational (e.g., independent knowledge acquisition, rigorous experimental design and interpretation of data, conducting research in the safest manner possible) and professional (e.g., management, leadership, communication, and teamwork) skills required for careers in the biomedical research workforce.the national institutes of health (nih) recognizes the need to diversify the scientific workforce by enhancing the participation of individuals from groups identified as underrepresented in the biomedical, clinical, behavioral and social sciences (collectively termed "biomedical") research workforce. research shows that diverse teams working together and capitalizing on innovative ideas and distinct perspectives outperform homogenous teams. scientists and trainees from diverse backgrounds and life experiences bring different perspectives, creativity, and individual interests to address complex scientific problems. there are many benefits that flow from a diverse nih-supported scientific workforce, including fostering scientific innovation, enhancing global competitiveness, contributing to robust learning environments, improving the quality of research, enhancing public trust, and increasing the likelihood that health disparities and the needs of underserved populations are addressed in biomedical research.nigms strives to ensure that future generations of researchers will be drawn from the entire pool of potential contributors, bringing different aptitudes, perspectives, interests, and experiences to address complex scientific problems. nigms seeks to enhance the diversity of the biomedical research workforce by supporting individuals from a variety of backgrounds at multiple training and career stages in a variety of institutions and educational settings across the country.in spite of recent advances, individuals from certain groups and backgrounds are underrepresented in the biomedical sciences research workforce as described in notice of nih's interest in diversity. the severity of the underrepresentation of these groups increases throughout the training stages. for example in 2017, students from certain racial and ethnic groups, including blacks or african americans, hispanics or latinos, american indians or alaska natives, native hawaiians and other pacific islanders comprised ~35 percent of the college age population, but earned only ~25 percent of bachelor’s degrees and ~16 percent of ph.d. degrees in science and engineering (national center for science and engineering statistics). additionally, while the united states has seen a significant increase in the number of ph.d. degrees in the biomedical sciences earned by scientists from groups underrepresented in the biomedical research workforce, a corresponding increase in the ranks of the faculty in basic science departments at medical schools has not occurred (gibbs, et al., 2016, elife 2016, 5:e21393; valantine, lund & gammie, cbe-life sciences education, 2016, 15:fe4).several reports (see for example, acd working group on diversity in the biomedical workforce, 2012; pcast report, 2012; from college to careers: fostering inclusion of persons with disabilities in stem, 2014; and increasing college opportunity for low income students, 2014) recommend supporting programs that strive to recruit, train, and mentor students from underrepresented groups who have an interest in science, technology, engineering and math (stem) as a means to effectively build a diverse and competitive scientific workforce.this foa is intended to enable the community to develop and implement evidence-informed approaches to biomedical research training and mentoring to enhance diversity in the biomedical research workforce. the president's council of advisors on science and technology (pcast) report provided evidence that financial concerns and the absence of a community of peers from similar backgrounds can erode self-confidence and the desire to remain in stem majors (pcast report, 2012). nigms diversity enhancing institutional training grants offset the cost of appointed trainee stipends, tuition and fees, and training related expenses, including health insurance, in accordance with approved nih support levels. additionally, funded programs are expected to provide activities that will build a strong cohort of research-oriented individuals while enhancing the science identity, self-efficacy, and a sense of belonging among the cohort members. programmatic activities include, but are not limited to, providing authentic research experiences, academic enhancements, skills development, and additional mentoring - activities proven to increase persistence in stem fields (cited in pcast report, 2012, graduate stem education for the 21st century, 2018, and the science of effective mentoring in stemm, 2019).each bridges to the doctorate research training program must consist of a strong partnership/consortium composed of at least two institutions: an institution that offers the master's degree as the terminal graduate degree in the biomedical sciences, and a research-intensive college or university granting ph.ds. in the biomedical sciences. each program should provide high-quality training that equips individuals with the technical (e.g., appropriate methods, technologies, and quantitative/computational approaches), operational (e.g., independent knowledge acquisition, rigorous experimental design, and interpretation of data, conducting research in the safest manner possible) and professional (e.g., management, leadership, communication, and teamwork) skills required for careers in the biomedical research workforce. funded programs are expected to promote inclusive research environments (i.e., institutional and departmental environments where trainees from all backgrounds are and feel integrated into and supported by the biomedical research community).the overarching objective of this bridges to the doctorate research training program is to develop a diverse pool of well-trained biomedical scientists who will transition from master’s degree programs and complete rigorous biomedical, research-focused doctoral degree programs (e.g., ph.d. or m.d./ph.d.) in biomedical fields relevant to the nigms mission. the long-term goal is to develop a diverse pool of well-trained biomedical scientists, who have the following technical, operational, and professional skills:diversity at all levels—from the kinds of science to the regions in which it is conducted to the backgrounds of the people conducting it— contributes to excellence in research training environments and strengthens the research enterprise. this foa is intended to support outstanding research training programs that will enhance diversity in the biomedical research workforce. as part of nigms’ strategy to support the development of a diverse pool of well-trained biomedical scientists across the training pathway, the bridges to the doctorate research training program will support trainees enrolled full-time at institutions with terminal master’s degrees in the biomedical sciences to transition into and complete biomedically relevant ph.d. programs within partnering research-intensive institutions.two different scenarios are anticipated for the bridges to the doctorate institutional partnerships:the applicant and partner institution(s) must provide strong justification for why it is beneficial for trainees to participate in the master’s degree program prior to entering a ph.d. program. as the partnership between the master's degree granting institution(s) and the research-intensive ph.d. granting institution(s) is a key component of this program, the application must include a program director/principal investigator from each participating institution.the bridges to the doctorate research training program recognizes the heterogeneity of institutional settings and institutional missions. therefore, each application must include a self-assessment of each participating institution that includes baseline data on student demographics, degree attainment rates, and career outcomes. program objectives should be based on this self-assessment and must align with the purpose of the bridges to the doctorate research training program.nigms intends to fund applications that propose feasible academic and research focused training programs that will enhance diversity in the biomedical workforce. programs are expected to have mentors from biomedical disciplines relevant to the nigms mission to provide a breadth of research experiences to trainees. proposed programs focused in disciplines outside of the nigms mission will be considered a low priority for funding.applicants are expected to identify training objectives (i.e., specific, measurable, and obtainable outcomes the program intends to achieve) and to develop plans to implement evidence-informed training and mentoring activities that are grounded in the literature and from evaluations of existing relevant programs. funded programs are expected to provide evidence of accomplishing the training objectives in progress reports and in renewal applications, to make training and career outcomes publicly available, and are strongly encouraged to disseminate successful training practices to the broader community.institutional commitment and support for the proposed training program are important elements of the application. the bridges to the doctorate research training program may complement and synergize with other ongoing federally-supported predoctoral research training programs at the applicant and partnering institution(s) (e.g., in the development of skills needed for careers in the biomedical research workforce); however, the bridges to the doctorate research training program goals and activities to achieve those goals must be distinct from related programs currently receiving federal support at the applicant and partnering institution(s). in cases where an institution has multiple nigms training grants, it is expected that these programs will seek to create administrative and training efficiencies to reduce costs and improve trainee services and outcomes. the training grant should be well integrated within one or more graduate department(s)/program(s) and should exert a strong, positive influence on the development and execution of the outreach and recruitment of potential trainees, graduate curriculum, training opportunities, and mentoring. training grant funds may not be used solely as a vehicle to provide stipends for trainees to conduct research.nigms does not accept applications for predoctoral t32 programs proposing only short-term research training. programs proposing short-term research training should apply to the kirschstein-nrsa short-term institutional research training grant program (t35) exclusively reserved for predoctoral, short-term research training (see pa-20-162 and subsequent reissuances; note that nigms does not participate in that foa). nigms will not accept applications proposing combined predoctoral and postdoctoral training under this foa.training grants are usually awarded for five years. the grant offsets the cost of stipends, tuition and fees, and training related expenses, including health insurance, for the appointed trainees in accordance with the approved nih support levels. trainees are typically provided full-time support for up to two years of graduate studies. it is expected that the program design includes at least one year of support during the master's degree program.this foa does not allow appointed trainees to lead an independent clinical trial but does allow them to obtain research experience in a clinical trial led by a mentor or co-mentor. nih strongly supports training towards a career in clinically relevant research and so gaining experience in clinical trials under the guidance of a mentor or co-mentor is encouraged.see section viii. other information for award authorities and regulations.grant: a support mechanism providing money, property, or both to an eligible entity to carry out an approved project or activity.new renewal of awards submitted to par-19-300 resubmissionthe oer glossary and the sf424 (r&r) application guide provide details on these application types. only those application types listed here are allowed for this foa.not allowed: only accepting applications that do not propose clinical trialsnote: appointed trainees are permitted to obtain research experience in a clinical trial led by a mentor or co-mentor.need help determining whether you are doing a clinical trial?the number of awards is contingent upon nih appropriations and the submission of a sufficient number of meritorious applications.application budgets are not limited but need to reflect the actual needs of the proposed project.grantees are expected to be familiar with and comply with applicable cost policies and the nrsa guidelines (nih grants policy statement - institutional research training grants). funds may be used only for those expenses that are directly related to and necessary for the research training and must be expended in conformance with omb cost principles, the nih grants policy statement, and the nrsa regulations, policies, guidelines, and conditions set forth in this document.awards may be for project periods up to five years in duration and are renewable.kirschstein-nrsa awards provide stipends as a subsistence allowance to help defray living expenses during the research training experience. nih will contribute to the combined cost of tuition and fees at the rate in place at the time of award. stipend levels, as well as funding amounts for tuition and fees and the institutional allowance are announced annually in the nih guide for grants and contracts, and are also posted on the ruth l. kirschstein national research service award (nrsa) webpage.nigms recognizes the need of trainees to attend scientific meetings, training events, and to build professional networks. nigms will provide up to $1,000 per trainee per year to travel to scientific meetings or training experiences that will enhance scientific development, build science identity, create a sense of belonging in the scientific community, and build professional networks. plans for trainee travel should be well justified. for bridges to the doctorate research training program-supported institutions outside the continental united states, $1,250 for travel per trainee per year will be provided.nigms will provide funds to help defray other research training expenses, such as health insurance, staff salaries, consultant costs, equipment, research supplies, and faculty/staff travel directly related to the research training program. training related expenses are limited to a maximum of $8,400/trainee/year.allowable costs include those associated with the following:skills development training activities (e.g., focusing on quantitative and computational, problem-solving, critical thinking, scientific writing, effective communication, and project management);seminar speakers, who will serve as role models to the traineestraining or mentoring interventions designed to increase persistence in research (e.g., those designed to increase science identity, self-efficacy and a sense of belonging in the scientific community);salary support for the pd(s)/pi(s). typically, salary support does not exceed 1.8 person months (i.e., 15% effort on a 12-month basis in total) depending on the size and scope of the program;salary support for administrative personnel; typically, the total combined salary support for program administrator/program coordinator and/or program assistant/clerical support does not exceed 3.0 person months (i.e., 25% effort on a 12-month basis) depending on the size and scope of the program;limited program evaluation costs (typically, up to $3,000 for the 5-year training grant period) and other program-related expenses may be included within the budget for training-related expenses.indirect costs (also known as facilities & administrative [f&a] costs) are reimbursed at 8% of modified total direct costs (exclusive of tuition and fees, consortium costs in excess of $25,000, and expenditures for equipment), rather than on the basis of a negotiated rate agreement.nih grants policies as described in the nih grants policy statement will apply to the applications submitted and awards made from this foa.higher education institutionsthe following types of higher education institutions are always encouraged to apply for nih support as public or private institutions of higher education:nonprofits other than institutions of higher educationgovernmentsotherfor diversity enhancing programs, nigms recognizes separate institutional eligibility tracks: research-intensive, i.e., those with an average of nih research project grant (rpg) funding greater than or equal to $7.5 million total costs per year over the past 3 fiscal years, and research-active, i.e., those with an average of rpg funding less than $7.5 million total costs per year over the past 3 fiscal years (rpg data are available through nih reporter). for example, fy 2018, fy 2019 and fy 2020 for applications submitted in september 2021.each bridges to the doctorate research training program must consist of a partnership/consortium composed of at least two institutions: an institution that offers the master's degree as the terminal graduate degree in the biomedical sciences, and a research-intensive institution granting ph.d. degrees in the biomedical sciences. the research-intensive partner institution(s) must have the resources and structures in place to support the bridges trainees to facilitate doctoral degree completion in a timely manner.research-active institutions (i.e., those eligible for u-rise or g-rise) are not eligible to apply for or receive bridges to the doctorate research training program grants as the ph.d. granting partner institution(s).the master's degree granting institution(s) must have a sufficient pool of training grant-eligible master's degree-seeking students and offer research training programs that are in alignment with the nigms mission. a college/university where the master’s degree is the highest graduate degree offered in the biomedical sciences, but offers a doctoral program in unrelated disciplines, is eligible to participate in a bridges to the doctorate research training program. the program seeks to promote and enhance partnerships between institutions. accordingly, institutions offering both master's and doctoral degrees in the biomedical sciences may not form partnerships within their own institution even if the students transition to another department, school, or college.an eligible institution may participate in more than one bridges to the doctorate research training program if multiple partnerships are strongly justified by the potential to magnify the programs' and institutions' outcomes. an institution is not allowed to serve as the applicant institution on more than one bridges the doctorate research training program.the applicant and partner institution(s) must assure support for the proposed program. appropriate institutional commitment to the program should be detailed in the institutional support letter in the letters of support attachment. additionally, a signed letter is required from a provost or similar official with institution-wide responsibility verifying the eligibility of the applicant and partner institutions at the time of application submission according to the eligibility criteria indicated above. see the application instructions for the required “letters of support” instructions in section iv.non-domestic (non-u.s.) entities (foreign institutions) are not eligible to apply.non-domestic (non-u.s.) components of u.s. organizations are not eligible to apply.applicant organizationsapplicant organizations must complete and maintain the following registrations as described in the sf 424 (r&r) application guide to be eligible to apply for or receive an award. all registrations must be completed prior to the application being submitted. registration can take 6 weeks or more, so applicants should begin the registration process as soon as possible. the nih policy on late submission of grant applications states that failure to complete registrations in advance of a due date is not a valid reason for a late submission.program directors/principal investigators (pd(s)/pi(s))all pd(s)/pi(s) must have an era commons account. pd(s)/pi(s) should work with their organizational officials to either create a new account or to affiliate their existing account with the applicant organization in era commons. if the pd/pi is also the organizational signing official, they must have two distinct era commons accounts, one for each role. obtaining an era commons account can take up to 2 weeks.any individual(s) with the skills, knowledge, and resources necessary to carry out the proposed research training program as the training program director/principal investigator (training pd/pi) is invited to work with his/her organization to develop an application for support. individuals from underrepresented racial and ethnic groups as well as individuals with disabilities are always encouraged to apply for nih support. as described in the instructions for the training program director(s)/principal investigator(s) (pd(s)/pi(s)) in section iv.2 below, applicants to the bridges to the doctorate research training program must designate a pd/pi from each participating institution (applicant and partner institutions) with the pd/pi of the applicant institution listed as the contact pd/pi. the contact pd/pi is expected to have a full-time appointment at the applicant institution unless extremely well-justified. if the full-time status of the contact pd/pi changes after the award, the institution must obtain prior program approval to appoint a new pd/pi or request a deviation from the full-time rule. applications that do not designate the pds/pis accordingly will be considered noncompliant and will not be reviewed.as bridges to the doctorate research training programs are required to have multiple pds/pis (see below), applicants should visit the multiple program director/principal investigator policy and submission details in the senior/key person profile (expanded) component of the sf 424 (r&r) application guide. this foa requires the designation of multiple pds/pis as key personnel, with a pd/pi from each participating institution. all pds/pis must be assigned the "pd/pi" role. the role of "co-pd/pi" is not currently used by nih or other phs agencies to designate a multiple pd/pi application. do not use the role of "co-pd/pi".at least one of the training pds/pis should be an established investigator in the biomedical sciences and capable of providing both administrative and scientific leadership to the development and implementation of the proposed program. additional pd(s)/pi(s), including individuals with experience in the science of education, relevant social science disciplines, program evaluation, mentoring, and university administration may be included to achieve the training goals. any of the pds/pis at the applicant institution may serve as the contact pd/pi.the pds/pis will be responsible for the selection and appointment of trainees to the approved research training program, and for the overall direction, management, administration, and evaluation of the program. the pds/pis will be expected to monitor and assess the program and submit all documents and reports as required. the pds/pis have responsibility for the day-to-day administration of the program and are responsible for appointing members of the advisory committee (when applicable) and using their recommendations to determine the appropriate allotment of funds.this foa does not require cost sharing as defined in the nih grants policy statement.nigms will accept only one application per institution, typically defined by a unique entity identifier, such as duns and an nih institution profile file (ipf) number.the nih will not accept duplicate or highly overlapping applications under review at the same time. this means that the nih will not accept:the selected faculty should be trained researchers in the biomedical sciences. when building a training team, programs should include faculty who are committed to training, mentoring, and providing supportive and inclusive research environments. programs are encouraged to build a diverse team of preceptors/mentors that includes, for example, faculty from underrepresented groups (see notice of nih's interest in diversity) and faculty at different career stages (i.e., early-career as well as established faculty).the individual to be trained must be a citizen or a noncitizen national of the united states or have been lawfully admitted for permanent residence at the time of appointment. additional details on citizenship, training period, and aggregate duration of support are available in the nih grants policy statement.at the time of appointment, trainees must be enrolled full-time in a master’s program in the biomedical sciences at the partner institution where the master's is the terminal graduate degree in the biomedical sciences.all trainees are required to pursue their research training full time, normally defined as 40 hours per week, or as specified by the sponsoring institution in accordance with its own policies. appointments are normally made in 12-month increments, and no trainee may be appointed for less than 9 months during the initial period of appointment, except with prior approval of the nih awarding unit.the bridges to the doctorate research training program is not intended for health-professional students who wish to interrupt their studies for a year or more to engage in research training.the application forms package specific to this opportunity must be accessed through assist, grants.gov workspace or an institutional system-to-system solution. links to apply using assist or grants.gov workspace are available in part 1 of this foa. see your administrative office for instructions if you plan to use an institutional system-to-system solution.it is critical that applicants follow the training (t) instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide except where instructed in this funding opportunity announcement to do otherwise. conformance to the requirements in the application guide is required and strictly enforced. applications that are out of compliance with these instructions may be delayed or not accepted for review.all page limitations described in the sf424 (r&r) application guide and the table of page limits must be followed.instructions for application submissionthe following section supplements the instructions found in the sf424 (r&r) application guide and should be used for preparing an application to this foa.follow all instructions provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.follow all instructions provided in the sf424 (r&r) application.follow all instructions provided in the sf424 (r&r) application, with the following modifications:are human subjects involved: check "no" unless the training program itself requires the trainees to take a workshop or course that will involve human subjects.are vertebrate animals used: check "no" unless the training program itself requires the trainees to take a workshop or course that will involve vertebrate animals.project summary/abstract: provide an overview of the entire program. include the mission, objectives, rationale and design of the research training program. highlight key activities in the training plan that promote skills development and successful transitions into careers in the biomedical research workforce. indicate the planned duration of appointments, the projected number of trainees and intended trainee outcomes.other attachments.advisory committee (1-page maximum). an advisory committee is not a required component of a training program. however, if an advisory committee is intended, provide a plan for the appointment of an advisory committee to monitor progress of the training program. the roles, responsibilities, and desired expertise of committee members, frequency of committee meetings, and other relevant information should be included. describe how the advisory committee will assess the overall effectiveness of the program. to avoid conflicts in the review process, only pre-existing advisory committee members should be named in the application. potential advisory committee members should not be identified or contacted prior to receiving an award. please name the file “advisory_committee.pdf”.application and admissions data. the participating institutions must provide application and admissions data to allow for the evaluation of the ability of participating departments/interdepartmental programs to recruit training grant eligible individuals. these data are useful in assessing the admissions and recruitment process, the diversity of the pool, and the appropriate number of training positions to be awarded. provide the numbers and characteristics of training grant eligible (i) applicants, (ii) admitted individuals, and (iii) matriculants for each of the past 5 academic years as well as the average over those years. applicants are encouraged to use the suggested table format table a provided on the nigms website and to report on the categories listed in the notice of nih’s interest in diversity listed below. demographic data should be from voluntary self-reporting.if the training program is interdepartmental with separate admissions for each department, provide the number of training grant eligible (i) applicants, (ii) admitted individuals, and (iii) matriculants in the relevant departments described in the application for each of the past 5 academic years. data from all participating institutions must be included in a single file. please name the file “application_admissions_data.pdf”. if this attachment is not included, the application will be considered incomplete and will not be reviewed.recruitment plan to enhance diversity (3-page maximum). the participating institutions must provide a recruitment plan to enhance diversity. the recruitment plan to enhance diversity should integrate approaches from the participating institutions and include outreach strategies and activities designed to recruit potential training program candidates who are from diverse backgrounds, including students from underrepresented racial and ethnic groups, individuals with disabilities, and students from disadvantaged backgrounds (see notice of nih's interest in diversity). applicants are encouraged to consult the nigms webpage for strategies to enhance diversity in training programs when designing their plans. describe the specific efforts to be undertaken by the training program and how these might coordinate with trainee recruitment efforts of the institution. centralized institutional efforts alone will not satisfy the requirement to recruit individuals from underrepresented groups. participating faculty are expected to be actively involved in recruitment efforts. data from all participating institutions must be included in a single file. please name the file “recruitment_plan.pdf”. if this attachment is not included, the application will be considered incomplete and will not be reviewed.trainee retention plan (3-page maximum). the participating institutions must provide a trainee retention plan. the trainee retention plan should integrate approaches from the participating institutions and must describe efforts to sustain the scientific interests as well as monitor the academic and research progress of trainees from all backgrounds within a program (i.e., retention). applicants are encouraged to consult the nih’s extramural diversity website to identify promising retention practices and to use evidence-informed practices for retention with the recognition that the variety of trainee backgrounds and experiences may necessitate the need to tailor retention approaches. describe the specific efforts to be undertaken by the training program and how these might coordinate with trainee retention efforts of the institution(s). centralized institutional efforts alone will not satisfy the requirement to implement robust and successful mechanisms to retain all trainees (e.g., participating faculty are expected to be actively involved in trainee retention efforts). data from all participating institutions must be included in a single file. please name the file “retention_plan.pdf”. if this attachment is not included, the application will be considered incomplete and will not be reviewed.outcomes data collection and storage plan (2-page maximum). the application must provide an outcomes data collection and storage plan to track the outcomes for all supported trainees for a minimum of 15 years beyond the trainee’s participation in the program. programs are encouraged to make the aggregate outcome data available on the applicant institution's website. if the applicant intends to make the data available, describe how the aggregate data will be de-identified before public posting. the applicant must include a strategy to ensure the secure storage and preservation of program data and outcomes. describe how the data will be centralized, safeguarded, and retrievable during leadership changes. please name the file “data_collection_storage_plan.pdf”. if this attachment is not included, the application will be considered incomplete and will not be reviewed.dissemination plan (1-page maximum). the application must provide a specific dissemination plan to publish or present nationally any findings or materials developed under the auspices of the program. examples of dissemination may include data or materials from successful training or mentoring interventions via web postings, presentations at scientific meetings, and/or workshops. please name the file “dissemination_plan.pdf”. if this attachment is not included, the application will be considered incomplete and will not be reviewed.institutional course credit agreements. the application must provide specific and detailed information regarding institutional course credit agreements. the institutional agreements attachment is to provide evidence that there is synergy between the participating institutions in terms of transfer of course credits to ensure an efficient time to degree. please name the file “institutional_agreement.pdf”. if this attachment is not included, the application will be considered incomplete and will not be reviewed.the filename provided for each “other attachment” will be the name used for the bookmark in the electronic application in era commons.follow all instructions provided in the sf424 (r&r) application with the following modifications.biographical sketch. the personal statement should describe a commitment to scientific rigor, training, mentoring, as well as to promoting inclusive, safe, and supportive scientific environments.follow all instructions provided in the sf424 (r&r) application.follow all instructions provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.follow all instructions provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide with the following modifications:the phs 398 research training program plan form is comprised of the following sections:follow all instructions provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide with the following modifications:attention must be given to the required training data tables for new or renewal applications. guidance for preparing the training data tables is found on the nigms website. table 6a is not required for nigms predoctoral training grant applications, and applicants must not include it. in the program plan, applicants should also summarize key data from the tables that highlight the characteristics of the applicant pool, program faculty, institutional support, student outcomes, and other factors that contribute to the overall training environment of the program.training programfollow all training instructions provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide except where instructed to do otherwise below.program planthe "program plan" attachment is required and must adhere to the nih table of page limits, as well as the organization and instructions provided below.do not follow the organization and instructions provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide for the program plan attachment; instead applicants must use the instructions below. start each section with the appropriate heading.rationale, mission, and objectivesthe application should describe how the bridges to the doctorate research training program will develop a diverse pool of well-trained scientists who have the technical, operational, and professional skills required to conduct research in a safe, ethically responsible and rigorous manner, and to enter careers in the biomedical research workforce as delineated in the program objective. the application should describe how the program will enhance the training environment and not simply provide financial support to graduate trainees. specifically, applicants should describe the following:curriculum and overall training planthe application should describe the following:career developmentthe application should describe the following:program oversight, participating faculty selection, and mentor trainingthe application should include the planned strategy and administrative structure to oversee and monitor the program, and to ensure appropriate and timely trainee progress for the duration of the trainees' graduate careers (the application may include the "evaluation and assessment instruments" appendix to provide blank rubrics or forms). the application should describe how the participating faculty are trained to ensure the use of evidence-informed teaching, training and mentoring practices that promote the development of trainees from all backgrounds, e.g., trainees from underrepresented backgrounds in the biomedical sciences (see notice of nih's interest in diversity). applicants should describe the following:institutional and departmental commitment to the programa letter providing assurances of the institutional commitment to the program must be included in the "letters of support" section of the application. applicants may use this section to expand upon the “facilities & other resources” section and the “letters of support” section, as necessary, to provide additional information regarding the institutional and departmental commitment to the program. do not repeat information contained elsewhere in the application.training program director(s)/principal investigator(s) (pds/pis)the application should describe how the multiple principal investigators (mpi) team, i.e., a minimum of one pi from each partner institution, will promote the success of the trainees and training program. the application should expand on the information in the biosketches to address how the mpi team has:preceptors/mentors (participating faculty)the application should describe how the participating faculty at the participating institutions will promote the success of the trainees and training program, as well as conducting responsible and rigorous research. describe how the program has or will assemble a diverse team of participating faculty (e.g., individuals from underrepresented backgrounds (see notice of nih's interest in diversity) and faculty at different career stages) to provide potential role models within the training program and to enhance the excellence of the training environment. the application should summarize and expand on the material presented in the training tables and biosketches and address how the participating faculty:application process, trainee positions, retention, and supportthrough the narrative and summaries of the information presented in the required training tables and the required attachments (i.e., application and admissions data for all applications) the following areas relevant to trainees should be addressed.application processtrainee positionsdescribe how large the program will be across all cohorts (i.e., the total number of individuals enrolled in the proposed program ranging from the entering cohort to those nearing graduation). for interdepartmental programs, describe the expected number of individuals in the program from each scientific discipline.provide a strong justification for the number of requested funded slots per year in the context of the training grant eligible pool, the size of the proposed program, the number of participating faculty, and other nigms-funded training grants at the institution. for renewal applications - describe the characteristics of the previously awarded training positions (table 7) as part of the justification for the requested positions.explain the proposed training grant support structure, i.e., how many individuals (e.g., 4 per year), at what stage (e.g., first-year entrants), and for how long (e.g., for 1 year).retention and supporttraining outcomesthis section is intended to provide outcomes for the program described in the application (or for new programs, to provide outcomes for training grant eligible students for the proposed program). for applications from institutions that do not have previous partnerships, describe the outcomes for each member of the proposed consortium. the application should provide the information below about recent outcomes through narrative descriptions and a summary of the data presented in the required training tables. although the training tables for new applications only allow for five years of recent outcomes, the application may describe up to 15 years of outcomes in the narrative. the application should describe the following:program evaluation and disseminationplan for instruction in the responsible conduct of researchapplicants are required to comply with the instructions for plan for instruction in the responsible conduct of research as provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, along with the following additional instructions:describe how the responsible conduct of research (rcr) components are well integrated into the overall curriculum, i.e., how they are taught at multiple stages of trainee development and in a variety of formats and contexts. explain how the teaching of rcr synergizes with elements of the curriculum designed to enhance trainees’ abilities to conduct rigorous and reproducible research. describe how all participating faculty will reiterate and augment key elements of responsible conduct when trainees are performing mentored research in their laboratories.plan for instruction in methods for enhancing reproducibilityapplicants are required to provide a plan for instruction in methods for enhancing reproducibility as provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.applicants are encouraged to consult the nigms clearinghouse for training modules to enhance data reproducibility and other resources when developing the plans.progress report (only for renewal applications)for applications describing programs that were previously funded under par-19-300 follow the instructions provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide with the following exceptions:for the "program overview" section, follow the page limit indicated in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, but follow the instructions below instead:o incorporating evidence-informed training and mentoring practices into the program.o teaching of rigor and transparency, and the responsible and safe conduct of research throughout the training experience.o the challenges and successes for enhancing diversity and inclusion.o overseeing all aspects of the program (e.g., of the mentor/mentee matches, the participating faculty, and trainee progress).o preparing trainees for a broad range of careers in the biomedical research workforce (including but not limited to the use of individual development plans, idps).faculty, trainees, and training recordparticipating faculty biosketchesparticipating faculty should provide a personal statement that describes the appropriateness of their research background for the proposed training program, and their commitment to the following:letters of supportinstitutional support letter (10-page maximum). the application must include a single letter on the applicant institution’s letterhead that is signed by each participating institution’s central administration (e.g. a president, provost, dean, or similar key institutional leader) that describes the activities and resources provided by the institutions that are designed to ensure the success of the planned training program and its trainees. if this letter is not included, or does not include a signature from each of the participating institutions, the application will be considered incomplete and will not be reviewed.the letter must outline each institution's respective role in administering the program, and these roles must be consistent with the goals and objectives of the proposed bridges to the doctorate research training program. the letter should describe how the resources within the ph.d. granting partner institution(s) will be leveraged to enhance the competitiveness of biomedical science graduates and science programs at the master’s granting partner institution(s). additionally, the letter must include the following language regarding nih consortium agreements:"the appropriate programmatic and administrative personnel of each organization involved in this grant application are aware of the nih consortium agreement policy and are prepared to establish the necessary inter-institutional agreement(s) consistent with that policy."the institutional commitment to the following areas should also be described (as applicable):master’s degree granting institutional eligibility letter(s). for the partner institution(s) where the master’s degree is the terminal graduate degree offered in the biomedical sciences, the provost or similar official with institution-wide responsibility from each partner must certify that the institution(s) does not offer doctoral degrees in the biomedical sciences. if this letter is not included for each institution, the application will be considered incomplete and will not be reviewed.research-intensive partner eligibility letter(s). (1-page maximum). for each research-intensive partner institution(s), the provost or similar official with institution-wide responsibility must certify that all the components of the institution under the unique entity identifier (such as duns or ipf number), in total, have an average of rpg funding greater than or equal to $7.5 million total costs (both direct and f&a/indirect costs) per year over the past 3 fiscal years, as described in section iii, "eligible organization". if this letter is not included for each institution, the application will be considered incomplete and will not be reviewed.other letters of support. additional letters of support (e.g., from collaborating institutions or organizations) are permitted; however, these letters may not contain any information required in the institutional support letter.combine all letters of support into a single pdf file.data tables: the application must include the required training data tables. for new applications: tables 1, 2, 3, 4, 5a, and 8a part iii. for renewals: tables 1, 2, 3, 4, 5a, 7, and 8a. applications that do not contain the required tables, or that submit any additional tables in this attachment, will be considered noncompliant and will not be reviewed. table 6a is not required for nigms predoctoral training grant applications, and applicants must not include it.appendixlimited items are allowed in the appendix. follow all instructions for the appendix as described in the sf424 (r&r) application guide; any instructions provided here are in addition to thesf424 (r&r) application guide instructions.the appendix is meant to provide additional details to the following topics but is not meant to substitute for clear descriptions in the body of the application. do not include items other than the required and allowable materials described below, as doing so will result in administrative withdrawal of the application prior to review. name the file according to the headings below. a summary sheet listing all the items included in the appendix may be included in the first appendix attachment.the following are required appendix materials:the following are allowable appendix materials:applications that do not include the required appendices or that exceed the number of allowed appendices or the page limitation of any of the allowed materials will be considered noncompliant and will not be reviewed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.see part 1. section iii.1 for information regarding the requirement for obtaining a unique entity identifier and for completing and maintaining active registrations in system for award management (sam), nato commercial and government entity (ncage) code (if applicable), era commons, and grants.gov.part i. overview information contains information about key dates and times. applicants are encouraged to submit applications before the due date to ensure they have time to make any application corrections that might be necessary for successful submission. when a submission date falls on a weekend or federal holiday, the application deadline is automatically extended to the next business day. organizations must submit applications to grants.gov (the online portal to find and apply for grants across all federal agencies). applicants must then complete the submission process by tracking the status of the application in the era commons, nih’s electronic system for grants administration. nih and grants.gov systems check the application against many of the application instructions upon submission. errors must be corrected and a changed/corrected application must be submitted to grants.gov on or before the application due date and time. if a changed/corrected application is submitted after the deadline, the application will be considered late. applications that miss the due date and time are subjected to the nih policy on late application submission.applicants are responsible for viewing their application before the due date in the era commons to ensure accurate and successful submission. information on the submission process and a definition of on-time submission are provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.this initiative is not subject to intergovernmental review.all nih awards are subject to the terms and conditions, cost principles, and other considerations described in the nih grants policy statement. the national research service award (nrsa) policies apply to this program. an nrsa appointment may not be held concurrently with another federally sponsored fellowship, traineeship, or similar federal award that provides a stipend or otherwise duplicates provisions of the nrsa. pre-award costs are allowable only as described in the nih grants policy statement. note, however, that pre-award costs are not allowable charges for stipends or tuition/fees on institutional training grants because these costs may not be charged to the grant until a trainee has actually been appointed and the appropriate paperwork submitted to the nih awarding component. any additional costs associated with the decision to allow research elective credit for short-term research training are not allowable charges on an institutional training grant.applications must be submitted electronically following the instructions described in the sf424 (r&r) application guide. paper applications will not be accepted.applicants must complete all required registrations before the application due date. section iii. eligibility information contains information about registration.for assistance with your electronic application or for more information on the electronic submission process, visit how to apply – application guide. if you encounter a system issue beyond your control that threatens your ability to complete the submission process on-time, you must follow the dealing with system issues guidance. for assistance with application submission, contact the application submission contacts in section vii.important reminders:all pd(s)/pi(s) must include their era commons id in the credential field of the senior/key person profile component of the sf424(r&r) application package. failure to register in the commons and to include a valid pd/pi commons id in the credential field will prevent the successful submission of an electronic application to nih. the applicant organization must ensure that the duns number it provides on the application is the same number used in the organization’s profile in the era commons and for the system for award management (sam). additional information may be found in the sf424 (r&r) application guide. see more tips for avoiding common errors.upon receipt, applications will be evaluated for completeness and compliance with application instructions by the center for scientific review and nigms. applications that are incomplete or non-compliant will not be reviewed.applicants requesting $500,000 or more in direct costs in any year are not required to contact a scientific/ research contact prior to submitting an application. the policy on the acceptance for review of unsolicited applications that request $500,000 or more in direct costs as described in the sf424 (r&r) application guide is not applicable to this foa.applicants are required to follow the instructions for post-submission materials, as described in the policy.only the review criteria described below will be considered in the review process.applications submitted to the nih in support of the nih mission are evaluated for scientific and technical merit through the nih peer review system.reviewers will provide an overall impact score to reflect their assessment of the likelihood that the proposed training program will produce a diverse pool of well-trained scientists with the technical (e.g., appropriate methods, technologies, and quantitative/computational approaches), operational (e.g., independent knowledge acquisition, rigorous experimental design, and interpretation of data), and professional (e.g., management, leadership, communication, and teamwork) skills necessary to conduct rigorous and reproducible research, and transition into careers in the biomedical research workforce, in consideration of the following review criteria and additional review criteria (as applicable for the program proposed).specifically, do the courses, structured training activities, mentoring, and research experiences equip the trainees with:does the proposed program support outstanding research training that will enhance diversity at all levels of the research training environment?reviewers will consider each of the review criteria below in the determination of the merit of the training program, and give a separate score for each. an application does not need to be strong in all categories to be judged likely to have major scientific impact.training program and environmentrationale, mission, and objectivescurriculum and overall training plancareer developmentprogram oversight, participating faculty selection, and mentor traininginstitutional and departmental commitment to the programtraining program director(s)/principal investigator(s) (pd(s)/pi(s))preceptors/mentors (participating faculty)application process, trainee positions, retention, and supportapplication processfunded positionsretention and supporttraining recordtraining outcomes for trainees (renewals) or training grant eligible pool (new applications)program evaluationas applicable for the project proposed, reviewers will evaluate the following additional items while determining scientific and technical merit, and in providing an overall impact score, but will not give separate scores for these items.training in methods for enhancing reproducibilitydoes the instruction in methods for enhancing reproducibility plan describe how trainees will be instructed in principles important for enhancing research reproducibility including, at a minimum, evaluation of foundational research underlying a project, rigorous experimental design and data analysis, consideration of relevant biological variables such as sex, authentication of key biological and/or chemical resources, data and material sharing, record keeping, and transparency in reporting? are the rigor and transparency components sufficiently well integrated into the overall curriculum? are they taught at multiple stages of trainee development and in a variety of formats and contexts? does the teaching synergize with elements of the curriculum designed to enhance trainees' abilities to conduct responsible research? is there evidence that all participating faculty reiterate and augment key elements of methods for enhancing reproducibility when trainees are performing mentored research in their laboratories? the plan will be rated as acceptable or unacceptable, and the summary statement will provide the consensus of the review committee.recruitment plan to enhance diversityreviewers will examine the strategies to be used in the recruitment of prospective individuals from underrepresented groups. the plan will be rated as acceptable or unacceptable, and the consensus of the review committee will be included in an administrative note in the summary statement.training in the responsible conduct of researchall applications for support under this foa must include a plan to fulfill nih requirements for instruction in the responsible conduct of research (rcr). taking into account the specific characteristics of the training program, the level of trainee experience, and the particular circumstances of the trainees, the reviewers will evaluate the adequacy of the proposed rcr training in relation to the following five required components: 1) format - does the plan satisfactorily address the format of instruction, e.g. lectures, coursework and/or real-time discussion groups, including face-to-face interaction? (a plan involving only on-line instruction is not acceptable); 2) subject matter – does the plan include a sufficiently broad selection of subject matter, such as conflict of interest, authorship, data management, human subjects and animal use, laboratory safety, research misconduct, and research ethics? 3) faculty participation - does the plan adequately describe how faculty will participate in the instruction? for renewal applications, are all training faculty who served as course directors, speakers, lecturers, and/or discussion leaders during the past project period named in the application? 4) duration of instruction - does the plan meet the minimum requirements for rcr, i.e., at least eight contact hours of instruction? 5) frequency of instruction – does the plan meet the minimum requirements for rcr, i.e., at least once during each career stage (undergraduate, post-baccalaureate, predoctoral, postdoctoral, and faculty levels) and at a frequency of no less than once every four years?are the rcr components sufficiently well integrated into the overall curriculum? are they taught at multiple stages of trainee development and in a variety of formats and contexts? does the teaching of rcr synergize with elements of the curriculum designed to enhance trainees' abilities to conduct rigorous and reproducible research? is there evidence that all participating faculty reiterate and augment key elements of responsible conduct when trainees are performing mentored research in their laboratories?plans and past record will be rated as acceptable or unacceptable, and the summary statement will provide the consensus of the review committee.protections for human subjectsgenerally not applicable. reviewers should bring any concerns to the attention of the scientific review officer.inclusion of women, minorities, and individuals across the lifespangenerally not applicable. reviewers should bring any concerns to the attention of the scientific review officer.vertebrate animalsgenerally not applicable. reviewers should bring any concerns to the attention of the scientific review officer.biohazardsgenerally not applicable. reviewers should bring any concerns to the attention of the scientific review officer.resubmissionsfor resubmissions, the committee will evaluate the application as now presented, taking into consideration the responses to comments from the previous scientific review group and changes made to the project. undue weight should not be given for simply responding to previous comments; instead the content of the responses and how the application project will be improved by any proposed changes should be considered.renewalsfor renewals, the committee will consider the progress made in the last funding period, including on the training in methods for enhancing reproducibility plan, recruitment plan to enhance diversity, and training in the responsible conduct of research plan.revisionsnot applicableas applicable for the project proposed, reviewers will consider each of the following items, but will not give scores for these items, and should not consider them in providing an overall impact score.select agent researchgenerally not applicable. reviewers should bring any concerns to the attention of the scientific review officer.budget and period of supportreviewers will consider whether the budget and the requested period of support are fully justified and reasonable in relation to the proposed research.applications will be evaluated for scientific and technical merit by (an) appropriate scientific review group(s), convened by the nigms scientific review branch in accordance with nih peer review policy and procedures, using the stated review criteria. assignment to a scientific review group will be shown in the era commons.as part of the scientific peer review, all applications:applications will be assigned on the basis of established phs referral guidelines to the appropriate nih institute or center. applications will compete for available funds with all other recommended applications . following initial peer review, recommended applications will receive a second level of review by the national advisory general medical sciences council. the following will be considered in making funding decisions:after the peer review of the application is completed, the pd/pi will be able to access his or her summary statement (written critique) via the era commons. refer to part 1 for dates for peer review, advisory council review, and earliest start date information regarding the disposition of applications is available in the nih grants policy statement.if the application is under consideration for funding, nih will request "just-in-time" information from the applicant as described in the nih grants policy statement. a formal notification in the form of a notice of award (noa) will be provided to the applicant organization for successful applications. the noa signed by the grants management officer is the authorizing document and will be sent via email to the grantee’s business official. awardees must comply with any funding restrictions described in section iv.5. funding restrictions. selection of an application for award is not an authorization to begin performance. any costs incurred before receipt of the noa are at the recipient's risk. these costs may be reimbursed only to the extent considered allowable pre-award costs. any application awarded in response to this foa will be subject to terms and conditions found on the award conditions and information for nih grants website. this includes any recent legislation and policy applicable to awards that is highlighted on this website.all nih grant and cooperative agreement awards include the nih grants policy statement as part of the noa. for these terms of award, see the nih grants policy statement part ii: terms and conditions of nih grant awards, subpart a: general and part ii: terms and conditions of nih grant awards, subpart b: terms and conditions for specific types of grants, grantees, and activities. more information is provided at award conditions and information for nih grants.recipients of federal financial assistance (ffa) from hhs must administer their programs in compliance with federal civil rights laws that prohibit discrimination on the basis of race, color, national origin, disability, age and, in some circumstances, religion, conscience, and sex. this includes ensuring programs are accessible to persons with limited english proficiency. the hhs office for civil rights provides guidance on complying with civil rights laws enforced by hhs. please see https://www.hhs.gov/civil-rights/for-providers/provider-obligations/index.html and http://www.hhs.gov/ocr/civilrights/understanding/section1557/index.html.hhs recognizes that research projects are often limited in scope for many reasons that are nondiscriminatory, such as the principal investigator’s scientific interest, funding limitations, recruitment requirements, and other considerations. thus, criteria in research protocols that target or exclude certain populations are warranted where nondiscriminatory justifications establish that such criteria are appropriate with respect to the health or safety of the subjects, the scientific study design, or the purpose of the research. for additional guidance regarding how the provisions apply to nih grant programs, please contact the scientific/research contact that is identified in section vii under agency contacts of this foa.please contact the hhs office for civil rights for more information about obligations and prohibitions under federal civil rights laws at https://www.hhs.gov/ocr/about-us/contact-us/index.html or call 1-800-368-1019 or tdd 1-800-537-7697.in accordance with the statutory provisions contained in section 872 of the duncan hunter national defense authorization act of fiscal year 2009 (public law 110-417), nih awards will be subject to the federal awardee performance and integrity information system (fapiis) requirements. fapiis requires federal award making officials to review and consider information about an applicant in the designated integrity and performance system (currently fapiis) prior to making an award. an applicant, at its option, may review information in the designated integrity and performance systems accessible through fapiis and comment on any information about itself that a federal agency previously entered and is currently in fapiis. the federal awarding agency will consider any comments by the applicant, in addition to other information in fapiis, in making a judgement about the applicant’s integrity, business ethics, and record of performance under federal awards when completing the review of risk posed by applicants as described in 45 cfr part 75.205 “federal awarding agency review of risk posed by applicants.” this provision will apply to all nih grants and cooperative agreements except fellowships.institutional nrsa training grants must be administered in accordance with the current nrsa section of the nih grants policy statement - institutional research training grants.the taxability of stipends is described in the nih grants policy statement. policies regarding the ruth l. kirschstein-nrsa payback obligation are explained in the nih grants policy statement.awards made primarily for educational purposes are exempted from the phs invention requirements and thus invention reporting is not required, as described in the nih grants policy statement.not applicablewhen multiple years are involved, awardees will be required to submit the research performance progress report (rppr) annually. continuation support will not be provided until the required forms are submitted and accepted.failure by the grantee institution to submit required forms in a timely, complete, and accurate manner may result in an expenditure disallowance or a delay in any continuation funding for the award.the federal funding accountability and transparency act of 2006 (transparency act), includes a requirement for awardees of federal grants to report information about first-tier subawards and executive compensation under federal assistance awards issued in fy2011 or later. all awardees of applicable nih grants and cooperative agreements are required to report to the federal subaward reporting system (fsrs) available at www.fsrs.gov on all subawards over $25,000. see the nih grants policy statement for additional information on this reporting requirement.a final rppr, the expenditure data portion of the federal financial report, and termination notices for all trainees, are required for closeout of an award as described in the nih grants policy statement.in accordance with the regulatory requirements provided at 45 cfr 75.113 and appendix xii to 45 cfr part 75, recipients that have currently active federal grants, cooperative agreements, and procurement contracts from all federal awarding agencies with a cumulative total value greater than $10,000,000 for any period of time during the period of performance of a federal award, must report and maintain the currency of information reported in the system for award management (sam) about civil, criminal, and administrative proceedings in connection with the award or performance of a federal award that reached final disposition within the most recent five-year period. the recipient must also make semiannual disclosures regarding such proceedings. proceedings information will be made publicly available in the designated integrity and performance system (currently fapiis). this is a statutory requirement under section 872 of public law 110-417, as amended (41 u.s.c. 2313). as required by section 3010 of public law 111-212, all information posted in the designated integrity and performance system on or after april 15, 2011, except past performance reviews required for federal procurement contracts, will be publicly available. full reporting requirements and procedures are found in appendix xii to 45 cfr part 75 – award term and conditions for recipient integrity and performance matters.in carrying out its stewardship of human resource-related programs, the nih may request information essential to an assessment of the effectiveness of this program from databases and from trainees themselves. trainees may be contacted after the completion of this award for periodic updates on various aspects of their employment history, publications, support from research grants or contracts, honors and awards, professional activities, and other information helpful in evaluating the impact of the program.within 10 years of making awards under this program, nigms will assess the program's overall outcomes.the overall evaluation of the program will be based on metrics that will include, but are not limited to, the following:we encourage inquiries concerning this funding opportunity and welcome the opportunity to answer questions from potential applicants.era commons help desk (questions regarding assist, era commons, application errors and warnings, documenting system problems that threaten submission by the due date, and post-submission issues) finding help online: http://grants.nih.gov/support/ (preferred method of contact)telephone: 301-402-7469 or 866-504-9552 (toll free)general grants information (questions regarding application instructions, application processes, and nih grant resources) email: grantsinfo@nih.gov (preferred method of contact) telephone: 301-637-3015grants.gov customer support (questions regarding grants.gov registration and workspace) contact center telephone: 800-518-4726 email: support@grants.govkenneth d. gibbs, jr., ph.d.national institute of general medical sciences (nigms)email: kenneth.gibbs@nih.govstephanie constant, ph.d.national institute of general medical sciencesemail: stephanie.constant@nih.govjustin rosenzweignational institute of general medical sciences (nigms)email: rosenzwj@nigms.nih.govrecently issued trans-nih policy notices may affect your application submission. a full list of policy notices published by nih is provided in the nih guide for grants and contracts. all awards are subject to the terms and conditions, cost principles, and other considerations described in the nih grants policy statement.awards are made under the authorization of section 487 of the public health service act as amended (42 usc 288) and under federal regulations 42 cfr 66.weekly toc for this announcement nih funding opportunities and noticesnote: for help accessing pdf, rtf, ms word, excel, powerpoint, audio or video files, see help downloading files.