Genetic analysis of non-human animal models to understand the genomic architecture of substance use disorders and addictive behaviors (U01 Clinical Trial Not Allowed)
https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/pa-files/PAR-18-789.html
national institutes of health (nih)national institute on drug abuse (nida)genetic analysis of non-human animal models to understand the genomic architecture of substance use disorders and addictive behaviors (u01 clinical trial not allowed)u01 research project – cooperative agreementsreissue of par-15-120par-18-789 nonesee section iii. 3. additional information on eligibility. 93.279 the goals of this initiative are to discover allelic variants, genomic alterations, and functional changes associated with addictive behaviors in non-human animals through systems studies that employ genetic and genomics strategies. we also encourage applications that take genetic and/or genomics approaches to integrate data, delineate gene networks, and uncover the function of known or newly discovered genetic or epigenetic variants.investigators examining the phenotype of knockout mice are discouraged from submitting applications to this foa. instead, they should submit applications in response pa-17-155 (r01) pa-17-157 (r21) functional genetics, epigenetics, and non-coding rnas in substance use disorders.”this foa will replace par-15-120 "identification of genetic and genomic variants by next-gen sequencing in non-human animal models (u01)."may 16, 2018july 21, 2018not applicableaugust 21, 2018, march 19, 2019; august 21, 2019, march 19, 2020; august 21, 2020, march 19, 2021, by 5:00 pm local time of applicant organization. all types of non-aids applications allowed for this funding opportunity announcement are due on these dates.applicants are encouraged to apply early to allow adequate time to make any corrections to errors found in the application during the submission process by the due date.august 21, 2018, march 19, 2019; august 21, 2019, march 19, 2020; august 21, 2020, march 19, 2021, by 5:00 pm local time of applicant organization. all types of aids and aids-related applications allowed for this funding opportunity announcement are due on these dates.applicants are encouraged to apply early to allow adequate time to make any corrections to errors found in the application during the submission process by the due date.october/november 2018, june/july 2019, october/november 2019, june/july 2020, october/november 2020, june/july 2021january 2019, october 2019, january 2020, october 2020, january 2021, october 2021april 2019, november 2019, april 2020, november 2020, april 2021, november 2021march 20, 2021not applicableit is critical that applicants follow the research (r) instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, except where instructed to do otherwise (in this foa or in a notice from the nih guide for grants and contracts). conformance to all requirements (both in the application guide and the foa) is required and strictly enforced. applicants must read and follow all application instructions in the application guide as well as any program-specific instructions noted in section iv. when the program-specific instructions deviate from those in the application guide, follow the program-specific instructions. applications that do not comply with these instructions may be delayed or not accepted for review.there are several options available to submit your application through grants.gov to nih and department of health and human services partners. you must use one of these submission options to access the application forms for this opportunity.part 1. overview information part 2. full text of the announcementsection i. funding opportunity description section ii. award information section iii. eligibility information section iv. application and submission information section v. application review information section vi. award administration information section vii. agency contacts section viii. other informationbackgroundthere are strong heritable components to the array of phenotypes and endophenotypes associated with addictive behaviors and substance use disorders, with emerging human genome-wide studies identifying variants associated with several of these phenotypes. classic behavioral genetics studies indicate that alleles influencing addiction-related phenotypes and endophenotypes can be identified in model organisms, providing the basis for the discovery of genes influencing these human phenotypes. animal models provide an opportunity to identify targeted and measurable aspects of the genetics, epigenetics, physiology and brain function that influence behaviors associated with substance use disorders.in addition to being used as a method to discover genes associated with addictive behaviors, model organism studies can be designed to tease out the relationships among variants and environmental components of substance use disorders, including substance of abuse, genetic background, gene x gene (gxg; epistasis), gene x environment (gxe), gene x drug (gxd), and other tractable environmental factors, such as genetic background that are not as easily accomplished in human genetic studies. these strong model systems capture the cellular context, identify tissue and cell-specific hallmarks, delineate relevant circuitry, help to understand longitudinal measures, and test hypotheses generated by human genetic studies. in addition, they facilitate a systems approach and can be used to develop new methods to integrate various levels of data (e.g. genomics, epigenomics, transcriptomics, behavioral, environmental), delineate epistatic, gxe, and gxd interactions at the organismal, tissue, circuit and cellular levels.research scope and objectivesthis announcement encourages applications for projects aimed at the discovery of allelic variants, genomic alterations, and functional changes associated with addictive behaviors in non-human animals through systems studies that employ genetic and genomics strategies. we also encourage applications that take genetic and/or genomics approaches to integrate data, delineate gene networks, and uncover the function of known or newly discovered genetic or epigenetic variants.the proposed projects should be based on phenotypes relevant to addictive behaviors and processes associated with substance use disorders. vulnerability phenotypes are defined as individual differences that convey increased propensity to acquire, maintain, or escalate to uncontrollable, compulsive drug intake or increased vulnerability to relapse to drug seeking and drug-taking following a period of abstinence. vulnerability phenotypes may be defined behaviorally or neurobiologically, must have demonstrated heritability, and be suitable for variant, gene, and/or gene network discovery. the following are examples of appropriate phenotypes; however, this is not an inclusive listing and there may be others:vulnerability phenotypes that have been identified by individual differences in neurobiological substrate or mechanisms (structural, functional, chemical) that can be genetically mapped are also appropriate.it is becoming clear that modifier loci and genetic background influence the presentation of various phenotypic traits associated with substance use disorders and addictive behaviors. studies that aim to identify the genetic architecture of background genes and modifier loci are appropriate for this foa, including studies proposing to use gene-editing, diverse backgrounds and other genetic methods.studies employing methods to integrate multiple levels of data to discover gene networks; gxe, gxg, and gxd interactions; and those proposing new methods to uncover these interactions, including those focusing on specific cell types, relevant tissues and neuronal circuits are also appropriate to this foa.investigators are strongly encouraged to discuss their applications with the scientific/research contact listed in this foa before submission.special considerationsnational advisory council on drug abuse recommended guidelines for the administration of drugs to human subjects: the national advisory council on drug abuse (nacda) recognizes the importance of research involving the administration of drugs with abuse potential, and dependence or addiction liability, to human subjects. potential applicants are encouraged to obtain and review these recommendations of council before submitting an application that will administer compounds to human subjects. the guidelines are available on nida's web site at http://www.drugabuse.gov/funding/clinical-research/nacda-guidelines-administration-drugs-to-human-subjects.points to consider regarding tobacco industry funding of nida applicants: the national advisory council on drug abuse (nacda) encourages nida and its grantees to consider the points it has set forth with regard to existing or prospective sponsored research agreements with tobacco companies or their related entities and the impact of acceptance of tobacco industry funding on nida's credibility and reputation within the scientific community. please see http://www.drugabuse.gov/about-nida/advisory-boards-groups/national-advisory-council-drug-abuse-nacda/council-statements/points-to-consider-regarding- for details.data harmonization for substance abuse and addiction via the phenx toolkit: nida strongly encourages investigators involved in human-subjects studies to employ a common set of tools and resources that will promote the collection of comparable data across studies and to do so by incorporating the measures from the core and specialty collections, which are available in the substance abuse and addiction collection of the phenx toolkit (www.phenxtoolkit.org). please see not-da-12-008 for further details.see section viii. other information for award authorities and regulations.cooperative agreement: a support mechanism used when there will be substantial federal scientific or programmatic involvement. substantial involvement means that, after award, nih scientific or program staff will assist, guide, coordinate, or participate in project activities. see section vi.2 for additional information about the substantial involvement for this foa.new renewal resubmission revisionthe oer glossary and the sf424 (r&r) application guide provide details on these application types.not allowed: only accepting applications that do not propose clinical trialsneed help determining whether you are doing a clinical trial?the number of awards is contingent upon nih appropriations and the submission of a sufficient number of meritorious applications.application budgets are not limited but need to reflect the actual needs of the proposed project.the maximum project period is 5 years.nih grants policies as described in the nih grants policy statement will apply to the applications submitted and awards made from this foa.higher education institutionsthe following types of higher education institutions are always encouraged to apply for nih support as public or private institutions of higher education:nonprofits other than institutions of higher educationfor-profit organizationsgovernmentsothernon-domestic (non-u.s.) entities (foreign institutions) are eligible to apply. non-domestic (non-u.s.) components of u.s. organizations are eligible to apply. foreign components, as defined in the nih grants policy statement, are allowed.applicant organizationsapplicant organizations must complete and maintain the following registrations as described in the sf 424 (r&r) application guide to be eligible to apply for or receive an award. all registrations must be completed prior to the application being submitted. registration can take 6 weeks or more, so applicants should begin the registration process as soon as possible. the nih policy on late submission of grant applications states that failure to complete registrations in advance of a due date is not a valid reason for a late submission.program directors/principal investigators (pd(s)/pi(s))all pd(s)/pi(s) must have an era commons account. pd(s)/pi(s) should work with their organizational officials to either create a new account or to affiliate their existing account with the applicant organization in era commons. if the pd/pi is also the organizational signing official, they must have two distinct era commons accounts, one for each role. obtaining an era commons account can take up to 2 weeks.any individual(s) with the skills, knowledge, and resources necessary to carry out the proposed research as the program director(s)/principal investigator(s) (pd(s)/pi(s)) is invited to work with his/her organization to develop an application for support. individuals from underrepresented racial and ethnic groups as well as individuals with disabilities are always encouraged to apply for nih support.for institutions/organizations proposing multiple pds/pis, visit the multiple program director/principal investigator policy and submission details in the senior/key person profile (expanded) component of the sf424 (r&r) application guide.this foa does not require cost sharing as defined in the nih grants policy statement.applicant organizations may submit more than one application, provided that each application is scientifically distinct.the nih will not accept duplicate or highly overlapping applications under review at the same time. this means that the nih will not accept:buttons to access the online assist system or to download application forms are available in part 1 of this foa. see your administrative office for instructions if you plan to use an institutional system-to-system solution.it is critical that applicants follow the research (r) instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, except where instructed in this funding opportunity announcement to do otherwise. conformance to the requirements in the application guide is required and strictly enforced. applications that are out of compliance with these instructions may be delayed or not accepted for review.for information on application submission and receipt, visit frequently asked questions – application guide, electronic submission of grant applications.all page limitations described in the sf424 application guide and the table of page limits must be followed.the following section supplements the instructions found in the sf424 (r&r) application guide and should be used for preparing an application to this foa.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed, with the following additional instructions:specific aims: list the objectives and goals of the proposed program. concisely and realistically describe the hypothesis or hypotheses to be tested.research strategy:propose a hypothesis driven research strategy. the application should address the following questions, as applicable:as part of this announcement investigators may describe plans to use the next-gen sequencing and genotyping resources of the center for addictions genomics (tcag) in the nida/niaaa intramural program. (see letters of support)letters of support. a letter from niaaa or nida staff (i.e. dr. david goldman or dr. colin hodgkinson) is required if the resources of the center for addictions genomics (tcag) in the nida/niaaa intramural program are planned.resource sharing plan: individuals are required to comply with the instructions for the resource sharing plans as provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, with the following modification:appendix:only limited appendix materials are allowed. follow all instructions for the appendix as described in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.when involving nih-defined human subjects research, clinical research, and/or clinical trials (and when applicable, clinical trials research experience) follow all instructions for the phs human subjects and clinical trials information form in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, with the following additional instructions:if you answered “yes” to the question “are human subjects involved?” on the r&r other project information form, you must include at least one human subjects study record using the study record: phs human subjects and clinical trials information form or delayed onset study record.study record: phs human subjects and clinical trials informationall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.delayed onset studyall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.foreign (non-u.s.) institutions must follow policies described in the nih grants policy statement, and procedures for foreign institutions.see part 1. section iii.1 for information regarding the requirement for obtaining a unique entity identifier and for completing and maintaining active registrations in system for award management (sam), nato commercial and government entity (ncage) code (if applicable), era commons, and grants.govpart i. overview information contains information about key dates and times. applicants are encouraged to submit applications before the due date to ensure they have time to make any application corrections that might be necessary for successful submission. when a submission date falls on a weekend or federal holiday, the application deadline is automatically extended to the next business day.organizations must submit applications to grants.gov (the online portal to find and apply for grants across all federal agencies). applicants must then complete the submission process by tracking the status of the application in the era commons, nih’s electronic system for grants administration. nih and grants.gov systems check the application against many of the application instructions upon submission. errors must be corrected and a changed/corrected application must be submitted to grants.gov on or before the application due date and time. if a changed/corrected application is submitted after the deadline, the application will be considered late. applications that miss the due date and time are subjected to the nih policy on late application submission.applicants are responsible for viewing their application before the due date in the era commons to ensure accurate and successful submission.information on the submission process and a definition of on-time submission are provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.this initiative is not subject to intergovernmental review.all nih awards are subject to the terms and conditions, cost principles, and other considerations described in the nih grants policy statement.pre-award costs are allowable only as described in the nih grants policy statement.applications must be submitted electronically following the instructions described in the sf424 (r&r) application guide. paper applications will not be accepted.applicants must complete all required registrations before the application due date. section iii. eligibility information contains information about registration.for assistance with your electronic application or for more information on the electronic submission process, visit applying electronically. if you encounter a system issue beyond your control that threatens your ability to complete the submission process on-time, you must follow the guidelines for applicants experiencing system issues. for assistance with application submission, contact the application submission contacts in section vii.important reminders:all pd(s)/pi(s) must include their era commons id in the credential field of the senior/key person profile component of the sf424(r&r) application package. failure to register in the commons and to include a valid pd/pi commons id in the credential field will prevent the successful submission of an electronic application to nih. see section iii of this foa for information on registration requirements.the applicant organization must ensure that the duns number it provides on the application is the same number used in the organization’s profile in the era commons and for the system for award management. additional information may be found in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.see more tips for avoiding common errors.upon receipt, applications will be evaluated for completeness and compliance with application instructions by the center for scientific review, nih. applications that are incomplete or non-compliant will not be reviewed.applicants requesting $500,000 or more in direct costs in any year (excluding consortium f&a) must contact a scientific/ research contact at least 6 weeks before submitting the application and follow the policy on the acceptance for review of unsolicited applications that request $500,000 or more in direct costs as described in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.applicants are required to follow the instructions for post-submission materials, as described in the policy. any instructions provided here are in addition to the instructions in the policy. important update: see not-od-18-228 for updated review language for due dates on or after january 25, 2019.only the review criteria described below will be considered in the review process. as part of the nih mission, all applications submitted to the nih in support of biomedical and behavioral research are evaluated for scientific and technical merit through the nih peer review system.reviewers will provide an overall impact score to reflect their assessment of the likelihood for the project to exert a sustained, powerful influence on the research field(s) involved, in consideration of the following review criteria and additional review criteria (as applicable for the project proposed).reviewers will consider each of the review criteria below in the determination of scientific merit, and give a separate score for each. an application does not need to be strong in all categories to be judged likely to have major scientific impact. for example, a project that by its nature is not innovative may be essential to advance a field.does the project address an important problem or a critical barrier to progress in the field? is there a strong scientific premise for the project? if the aims of the project are achieved, how will scientific knowledge, technical capability, and/or clinical practice be improved? how will successful completion of the aims change the concepts, methods, technologies, treatments, services, or preventative interventions that drive this field?are the pd(s)/pi(s), collaborators, and other researchers well suited to the project? if early stage investigators or those in the early stages of independent careers, do they have appropriate experience and training? if established, have they demonstrated an ongoing record of accomplishments that have advanced their field(s)? if the project is collaborative or multi-pd/pi, do the investigators have complementary and integrated expertise; are their leadership approach, governance and organizational structure appropriate for the project?does the application challenge and seek to shift current research or clinical practice paradigms by utilizing novel theoretical concepts, approaches or methodologies, instrumentation, or interventions? are the concepts, approaches or methodologies, instrumentation, or interventions novel to one field of research or novel in a broad sense? is a refinement, improvement, or new application of theoretical concepts, approaches or methodologies, instrumentation, or interventions proposed?are the overall strategy, methodology, and analyses well-reasoned and appropriate to accomplish the specific aims of the project? have the investigators presented strategies to ensure a robust and unbiased approach, as appropriate for the work proposed? are potential problems, alternative strategies, and benchmarks for success presented? if the project is in the early stages of development, will the strategy establish feasibility and will particularly risky aspects be managed? have the investigators presented adequate plans to address relevant biological variables, such as sex, for studies in vertebrate animals or human subjects? do the investigators provide sufficient evidence that the trait is heritable? is the sample size sufficiently powered for the proposed analyses, such as mapping the trait and/or identifying genomic variants? if applicable, is there sufficient power to delineate gene networks, gxe, gxd, and/or gxg interactions? is the proposed data analysis appropriate for the study? has the analysis adequately taken steps to ensure rigor and reproducibility of the proposed studies? are the milestones clearly defined and appropriate for the proposed body of work?if the project involves human subjects and/or nih-defined clinical research, are the plans to address 1) the protection of human subjects from research risks, and 2) inclusion (or exclusion) of individuals on the basis of sex/gender, race, and ethnicity, as well as the inclusion or exclusion of children, justified in terms of the scientific goals and research strategy proposed?will the scientific environment in which the work will be done contribute to the probability of success? are the institutional support, equipment and other physical resources available to the investigators adequate for the project proposed? will the project benefit from unique features of the scientific environment, subject populations, or collaborative arrangements?as applicable for the project proposed, reviewers will evaluate the following additional items while determining scientific and technical merit, and in providing an overall impact score, but will not give separate scores for these items.for research that involves human subjects but does not involve one of the six categories of research that are exempt under 45 cfr part 46, the committee will evaluate the justification for involvement of human subjects and the proposed protections from research risk relating to their participation according to the following five review criteria: 1) risk to subjects, 2) adequacy of protection against risks, 3) potential benefits to the subjects and others, 4) importance of the knowledge to be gained, and 5) data and safety monitoring for clinical trials.for research that involves human subjects and meets the criteria for one or more of the six categories of research that are exempt under 45 cfr part 46, the committee will evaluate: 1) the justification for the exemption, 2) human subjects involvement and characteristics, and 3) sources of materials. for additional information on review of the human subjects section, please refer to the guidelines for the review of human subjects.when the proposed project involves human subjects and/or nih-defined clinical research, the committee will evaluate the proposed plans for the inclusion (or exclusion) of individuals on the basis of sex/gender, race, and ethnicity, as well as the inclusion (or exclusion) of children to determine if it is justified in terms of the scientific goals and research strategy proposed. for additional information on review of the inclusion section, please refer to the guidelines for the review of inclusion in clinical research.the committee will evaluate the involvement of live vertebrate animals as part of the scientific assessment according to the following criteria: (1) description of proposed procedures involving animals, including species, strains, ages, sex, and total number to be used; (2) justifications for the use of animals versus alternative models and for the appropriateness of the species proposed; (3) interventions to minimize discomfort, distress, pain and injury; and (4) justification for euthanasia method if not consistent with the avma guidelines for the euthanasia of animals. reviewers will assess the use of chimpanzees as they would any other application proposing the use of vertebrate animals. for additional information on review of the vertebrate animals section, please refer to the worksheet for review of the vertebrate animal section.reviewers will assess whether materials or procedures proposed are potentially hazardous to research personnel and/or the environment, and if needed, determine whether adequate protection is proposed.for resubmissions, the committee will evaluate the application as now presented, taking into consideration the responses to comments from the previous scientific review group and changes made to the project.for renewals, the committee will consider the progress made in the last funding period.for revisions, the committee will consider the appropriateness of the proposed expansion of the scope of the project. if the revision application relates to a specific line of investigation presented in the original application that was not recommended for approval by the committee, then the committee will consider whether the responses to comments from the previous scientific review group are adequate and whether substantial changes are clearly evident.as applicable for the project proposed, reviewers will consider each of the following items, but will not give scores for these items, and should not consider them in providing an overall impact score.reviewers will assess whether the project presents special opportunities for furthering research programs through the use of unusual talent, resources, populations, or environmental conditions that exist in other countries and either are not readily available in the united states or augment existing u.s. resources.reviewers will assess the information provided in this section of the application, including 1) the select agent(s) to be used in the proposed research, 2) the registration status of all entities where select agent(s) will be used, 3) the procedures that will be used to monitor possession use and transfer of select agent(s), and 4) plans for appropriate biosafety, biocontainment, and security of the select agent(s).reviewers will comment on whether the following resource sharing plans, or the rationale for not sharing the following types of resources, are reasonable: (1) data sharing plan; (2) sharing model organisms; and (3) genomic data sharing plan (gds).for projects involving key biological and/or chemical resources, reviewers will comment on the brief plans proposed for identifying and ensuring the validity of those resources.reviewers will consider whether the budget and the requested period of support are fully justified and reasonable in relation to the proposed research.applications will be evaluated for scientific and technical merit by (an) appropriate scientific review group(s) convened by nida, in accordance with nih peer review policy and procedures, using the stated review criteria. assignment to a scientific review group will be shown in the era commons.as part of the scientific peer review, all applications:applications will be assigned on the basis of established phs referral guidelines to the appropriate nih institute or center. applications will compete for available funds with all other recommended applications. following initial peer review, recommended applications will receive a second level of review by the national advisory council on drug abuse. the following will be considered in making funding decisions:after the peer review of the application is completed, the pd/pi will be able to access his or her summary statement (written critique) via the era commons. refer to part 1 for dates for peer review, advisory council review, and earliest start date.information regarding the disposition of applications is available in the nih grants policy statement.if the application is under consideration for funding, nih will request "just-in-time" information from the applicant as described in the nih grants policy statement.a formal notification in the form of a notice of award (noa) will be provided to the applicant organization for successful applications. the noa signed by the grants management officer is the authorizing document and will be sent via email to the grantee’s business official.awardees must comply with any funding restrictions described in section iv.5. funding restrictions. selection of an application for award is not an authorization to begin performance. any costs incurred before receipt of the noa are at the recipient's risk. these costs may be reimbursed only to the extent considered allowable pre-award costs.any application awarded in response to this foa will be subject to terms and conditions found on the award conditions and information for nih grants website. this includes any recent legislation and policy applicable to awards that is highlighted on this website.all nih grant and cooperative agreement awards include the nih grants policy statement as part of the noa. for these terms of award, see the nih grants policy statement part ii: terms and conditions of nih grant awards, subpart a: general and part ii: terms and conditions of nih grant awards, subpart b: terms and conditions for specific types of grants, grantees, and activities. more information is provided at award conditions and information for nih grants.recipients of federal financial assistance (ffa) from hhs must administer their programs in compliance with federal civil rights law. this means that recipients of hhs funds must ensure equal access to their programs without regard to a person’s race, color, national origin, disability, age and, in some circumstances, sex and religion. this includes ensuring your programs are accessible to persons with limited english proficiency. hhs recognizes that research projects are often limited in scope for many reasons that are nondiscriminatory, such as the principal investigator’s scientific interest, funding limitations, recruitment requirements, and other considerations. thus, criteria in research protocols that target or exclude certain populations are warranted where nondiscriminatory justifications establish that such criteria are appropriate with respect to the health or safety of the subjects, the scientific study design, or the purpose of the research.for additional guidance regarding how the provisions apply to nih grant programs, please contact the scientific/research contact that is identified in section vii under agency contacts of this foa. hhs provides general guidance to recipients of ffa on meeting their legal obligation to take reasonable steps to provide meaningful access to their programs by persons with limited english proficiency. please see https://www.hhs.gov/civil-rights/for-individuals/special-topics/limited-english-proficiency/index.html. the hhs office for civil rights also provides guidance on complying with civil rights laws enforced by hhs. please see http://www.hhs.gov/ocr/civilrights/understanding/section1557/index.html; and https://www.hhs.gov/civil-rights/for-providers/laws-regulations-guidance/index.html. recipients of ffa also have specific legal obligations for serving qualified individuals with disabilities. please see http://www.hhs.gov/ocr/civilrights/understanding/disability/index.html. please contact the hhs office for civil rights for more information about obligations and prohibitions under federal civil rights laws at https://www.hhs.gov/ocr/about-us/contact-us/index.html or call 1-800-368-1019 or tdd 1-800-537-7697. also note it is an hhs departmental goal to ensure access to quality, culturally competent care, including long-term services and supports, for vulnerable populations. for further guidance on providing culturally and linguistically appropriate services, recipients should review the national standards for culturally and linguistically appropriate services in health and health care at http://minorityhealth.hhs.gov/omh/browse.aspx?lvl=2&lvlid=53.in accordance with the statutory provisions contained in section 872 of the duncan hunter national defense authorization act of fiscal year 2009 (public law 110-417), nih awards will be subject to the federal awardee performance and integrity information system (fapiis) requirements. fapiis requires federal award making officials to review and consider information about an applicant in the designated integrity and performance system (currently fapiis) prior to making an award. an applicant, at its option, may review information in the designated integrity and performance systems accessible through fapiis and comment on any information about itself that a federal agency previously entered and is currently in fapiis. the federal awarding agency will consider any comments by the applicant, in addition to other information in fapiis, in making a judgement about the applicant’s integrity, business ethics, and record of performance under federal awards when completing the review of risk posed by applicants as described in 45 cfr part 75.205 “federal awarding agency review of risk posed by applicants.” this provision will apply to all nih grants and cooperative agreements except fellowships.cooperative agreement terms and conditions of awardthese special terms of award are in addition to and not in lieu of otherwise applicable omb administrative guidelines, hhs grant administration regulations at 45 cfr parts 74 and 92, and other hhs, phs, and nih grant administration policies.the administrative and funding instrument used for this program will be the cooperative agreement, an "assistance" mechanism (rather than an "acquisition" mechanism), in which substantial nih programmatic involvement with the awardee is anticipated during the performance of the activities. under the cooperative agreement, the nih purpose is to support and stimulate the recipients' activities by involvement in and otherwise working jointly with the award recipients in a partnership role; it is not to assume direction, prime responsibility, or a dominant role in the activities. consistent with this concept, the dominant role and prime responsibility resides with the awardees for the project as a whole, although specific tasks and activities may be shared among the awardees and the nih as defined below.the program director/principal investigator (pd/pi) will have the primary responsibility for:the pd/pi will have the primary responsibility for all aspects of the study, including any modification of study design, conduct of the study, quality control, data analysis and interpretation, preparation of publications, dissemination of data, tools, and technologies, and collaboration with other investigators. the pd/pi agrees to accept close coordination, cooperation, and participation of nida staff in those aspects of scientific and technical management of the study as stated in these terms and conditions.annual progress reports will inform on the grantee's progress of the project or projects conducted under this award, including progress, obstacles and steps taken to remedy them, and a summary of any nida-approved changes and departures from the approved study protocol.milestones for each study will follow the timeline proposed and agreed upon between the grantee and nida program staff.awardees who do not accomplish the negotiated milestones shall submit a milestone report which will include a discussion of why the milestones were not met in the agreed- upon timeframe, and propose a corrective action plan in consultation with the program official and project scientist. the corrective action plan shall include amended milestones, plans to achieve the amended milestones and any additional items required by nida staff. the plan shall be provided to nida staff no later than 2 months following the missed milestone. the inability of the awardees to meet agreed-upon milestones may result in an adjustment of funding and possible termination of the grant.awardees are expected to publish and publicly disseminate results, data, and other products of the study, concordant with governance policies and protocols. publications and oral presentations of work performed under this agreement will require appropriate acknowledgment of support by the nida.nida staff have substantial programmatic involvement that is above and beyond the normal stewardship role in awards, as described below:program official: a nida program official will be responsible for the normal scientific and programmatic stewardship of the award and will be named in the award notice. the nida program official, who will not participate in the research or the preparation of publications, will be responsible for monitoring the conduct of the project. the program official carries primary responsibility for: (1) periodic review and monitoring and approval of the progress of the research plans in relation to their stated objectives, including consistent communication with the pi and requests for additional reports or documentation; and (2) making recommendations regarding continuance of the program. the program official will receive all required progress reports to determine that satisfactory progress is being made and will work collaboratively with the nida grants management specialist to assure high quality business management of the program, including the most effective use of grant money provided through this cooperative agreement.project scientist: in addition to the program official who will be responsible for normal program stewardship, the cooperative agreement will be assigned a project scientist (ps) with expertise in genetics. the ps will be substantially involved in this project beyond the normal stewardship of an nida program official by ensuring the established studies are followed and assisting in overseeing the quality of the study. the project scientist be substantially involved as an active partner in those aspects of the scientific management of the project indicated by the terms and conditions, including protocol development, quality control, interim data monitoring, final analysis, and selection of animal models for sequencing. this level of involvement will be above and beyond the levels typically required for administration of traditional research grants and is vital to the success of this program. however, the lead responsibility for refining the design of the project and carrying it out will rest with the principal investigators. the additional responsibilities of the project scientist are to:nih intramural scientist: the pd/pi may enlist an nih intramural scientist to have a substantial scientific involvement as a key co-investigator in the extramural research project.program staff act as a resource to aid in resolving scientific conflicts as they arise.study closure - nida may require that a study be closed for reasons including but not limited to: failure to complete milestones and b) emergence of new information that diminishes the scientific importance of the study question. once notified by the grants management branch, nida, of site closure or that the study should cease, only reasonable personnel and administrative costs associated with the orderly phase-out of the study or site may be obligated or charged to the grant award.areas of joint responsibility include:dispute resolution:any disagreements that may arise in scientific or programmatic matters (within the scope of the award) between award recipients and the nih may be brought to dispute resolution. a dispute resolution panel composed of three members will be convened. it will have three members: a designee of the steering committee chosen without nih staff voting, one nih designee, and a third designee with expertise in the relevant area who is chosen by the other two; in the case of individual disagreement, the first member may be chosen by the individual awardee. this special dispute resolution procedure does not alter the awardee's right to appeal an adverse action that is otherwise appealable in accordance with phs regulation 42 cfr part 50, subpart d and dhhs regulation 45 cfr part 16.when multiple years are involved, awardees will be required to submit the research performance progress report (rppr) annually and financial statements as required in the nih grants policy statement.a final rppr, invention statement, and the expenditure data portion of the federal financial report are required for closeout of an award, as described in the nih grants policy statement.the federal funding accountability and transparency act of 2006 (transparency act), includes a requirement for awardees of federal grants to report information about first-tier subawards and executive compensation under federal assistance awards issued in fy2011 or later. all awardees of applicable nih grants and cooperative agreements are required to report to the federal subaward reporting system (fsrs) available at www.fsrs.gov on all subawards over $25,000. see the nih grants policy statement for additional information on this reporting requirement.in accordance with the regulatory requirements provided at 45 cfr 75.113 and appendix xii to 45 cfr part 75, recipients that have currently active federal grants, cooperative agreements, and procurement contracts from all federal awarding agencies with a cumulative total value greater than $10,000,000 for any period of time during the period of performance of a federal award, must report and maintain the currency of information reported in the system for award management (sam) about civil, criminal, and administrative proceedings in connection with the award or performance of a federal award that reached final disposition within the most recent five-year period. the recipient must also make semiannual disclosures regarding such proceedings. proceedings information will be made publicly available in the designated integrity and performance system (currently fapiis). this is a statutory requirement under section 872 of public law 110-417, as amended (41 u.s.c. 2313). as required by section 3010 of public law 111-212, all information posted in the designated integrity and performance system on or after april 15, 2011, except past performance reviews required for federal procurement contracts, will be publicly available. full reporting requirements and procedures are found in appendix xii to 45 cfr part 75 – award term and conditions for recipient integrity and performance matters.we encourage inquiries concerning this funding opportunity and welcome the opportunity to answer questions from potential applicants.era service desk (questions regarding assist, era commons registration, submitting and tracking an application, documenting system problems that threaten submission by the due date, post submission issues) finding help online: http://grants.nih.gov/support/ (preferred method of contact) telephone: 301-402-7469 or 866-504-9552 (toll free)grants.gov customer support (questions regarding grants.gov registration and submission, downloading forms and application packages) contact center telephone: 800-518-4726 email: support@grants.govgrantsinfo (questions regarding application instructions and process, finding nih grant resources) email: grantsinfo@nih.gov (preferred method of contact) telephone: 301-637-3015amy c. lossie, phd national institute on drug abuse (nida) telephone: 301-827-6092 email: lossieac@mail.nih.govgerald mclaughlin, phd national institute on drug abuse (nida) telephone: 301-827-5819 email: gmclaughlin@nida.nih.govcheryl nathaniel national institute on drug abuse (nida) telephone: 301-827-6703 email: nathanic@nida.nih.govrecently issued trans-nih policy notices may affect your application submission. a full list of policy notices published by nih is provided in the nih guide for grants and contracts. all awards are subject to the terms and conditions, cost principles, and other considerations described in the nih grants policy statement.awards are made under the authorization of sections 301 and 405 of the public health service act as amended (42 usc 241 and 284) and under federal regulations 42 cfr part 52 and 45 cfr part 75. weekly toc for this announcement nih funding opportunities and noticesnote: for help accessing pdf, rtf, ms word, excel, powerpoint, audio or video files, see help downloading files.