NEI Institutional Mentored Physician Scientist Award (K12 Clinical Trial Optional)
https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/pa-files/PAR-21-073.html
national institutes of health (nih)national eye institute (nei)nei institutional mentored physician scientist award (k12 clinical trial optional)k12 physician scientist award program (psa)reissue of par-18-726 - nei institutional mentored physician scientist awardâ (k12 clinical trial optional)par-21-073nonesee section iii. 3. additional information on eligibility.93.867the purpose of this funding opportunity announcement (foa) is to encourage institutions to propose creative and innovative institutional research career development programs which prepare clinically trained vision scientists for independent research careers. this initiative is intended to expand and strengthen the community of clinician investigators engaged in clinical research. such an increase in the number of well-trained clinical researchers is necessary to achieve a pool of scientists with contemporary, multidisciplinary expertise able to leverage recent advances in ocular genetics, artificial intelligence, computational modelling, ocular therapeutics, bioengineering, and bio-behavioral research in order to enhance patient treatment and to increase scientific momentum in these fields.this funding opportunity announcement (foa) allows appointment of scholars proposing a separate ancillary study to an existing trial or proposing to gain research experience in a clinical trial led by another investigator, as part of their research and career development. for this career development program scholars are limited to clinical trials that are mechanistic and/or minimal risk. the existing clinical trial must be a nih-defined clinical trial that fulfills the nih requirement for either a mechanistic or minimal risk trial. a mechanistic trial is designed to understand a biological or behavioral process, the pathophysiology of a disease, or the mechanism of action of an intervention. a minimal risk trial is one in which the probability and magnitude of harm or discomfort anticipated in the research are not greater in and of themselves than those ordinarily encountered in daily life or during the performance of routine physical or psychological examinations or tests. for this career development program, scholars are limited to clinical trials that are mechanistic and/or minimal risk. applicants are strongly advised to consult with nei program staff prior to submitting an application with human subjects to determine the appropriate funding opportunity.december 1, 2020may 9, 2021not applicablejune 9, 2021; june 9, 2022; june 9, 2023all applications are due by 5:00 pm local time of applicant organization. all types of non-aids applications allowed for this funding opportunity announcement are due on the listed date(s).applicants are encouraged to apply early to allow adequate time to make any corrections to errors found in the application during the submission process by the due date.not applicableoctober/november 2021; october/november 2022; october/november 2023january 2022; january 2023; january 2024april 2022june 10, 2023not applicableit is critical that applicants follow the training (t) instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, except where instructed to do otherwise (in this foa or in a notice from the nih guide for grants and contracts). conformance to all requirements (both in the application guide and the foa) is required and strictly enforced. applicants must read and follow all application instructions in the application guide as well as any program-specific instructions noted in section iv. when the program-specific instructions deviate from those in the application guide, follow the program-specific instructions. applications that do not comply with these instructions may be delayed or not accepted for review.there are several options available to submit your application through grants.gov to nih and department of health and human services partners. you must use one of these submission options to access the application forms for this opportunity.part 1. overview information part 2. full text of the announcement section i. funding opportunity description section ii. award information section iii. eligibility information section iv. application and submission information section v. application review information section vi. award administration information section vii. agency contacts section viii. other informationthe overall goal of the nih research career development programs is to help ensure that a diverse pool of highly trained scientists is available in appropriate scientific disciplines to address the nation’s biomedical, behavioral, and clinical research needs. more information about career programs may be found at the nih extramural training mechanisms website.purpose and background informationthe purpose of this funding opportunity announcement (foa) is to encourage institutions to propose creative and innovative institutional research career development programs which prepare clinically-trained vision scientists for independent research careers. this initiative is intended to expand and strengthen the community of clinician investigators engaged in clinical research. such an increase in the number of well-trained clinical researchers is necessary to achieve a pool of scientists with contemporary, multidisciplinary expertise able to leverage recent advances in ocular genetics, therapeutics, bioengineering, and bio-behavioral research in order to enhance patient treatment and to increase scientific momentum in these fields. the proposed institutional research career development program may complement other, ongoing research training and career development programs at the applicant institution, but the proposed career development experiences must be distinct from those career development programs currently receiving federal support. note: this funding opportunity announcement (foa) allows appointment of scholars proposing a separate ancillary study to an existing trial or proposing to gain research experience in a clinical trial led by another investigator, as part of their research and career development. the existing clinical trial must be a nih-defined clinical trial that fulfills the nih requirements for either a mechanistic or minimal risk trial. for this career development program scholars are limited to clinical trials that are mechanistic and/or minimal risk..see section viii. other information for award authorities and regulations.grant: a support mechanism providing money, property, or both to an eligible entity to carry out an approved project or activity.new renewal resubmission revisionthe oer glossary and the sf424 (r&r) application guide provide details on these application types. only those application types listed here are allowed for this foa.optional: accepting applications that either propose or do not propose clinical trial(s)need help determining whether you are doing a clinical trial?the number of awards is contingent upon nih appropriations and the submission of a sufficient number of meritorious applications.application budgets are not limited but need to reflect the actual needs of the proposed project.the scope of the proposed project should determine the project period. the maximum project period is five years.individuals designing, directing, and implementing the career development program may request salary and fringe benefits appropriate for the person months devoted to the program. salaries requested may not exceed the levels commensurate with the institution's policy for similar positions and may not exceed the congressionally mandated cap.no funds may be requested for salary support of mentors.the salaries of administrative and clerical staff should normally be treated as indirect (f&a) costs. direct charging of these costs may be appropriate only if all of the following conditions are met: (1) administrative or clerical services are integral to a project or activity; (2) individuals involved can be specifically identified with the project or activity; (3) such costs are explicitly included in the budget or have the prior written approval of the federal awarding agency; and (4) the costs are not also recovered as indirect costs. when specifically identified and justified, these expenses must be itemized in sections a and b, as appropriate, of the r&r budget.scholars are those individuals who benefit from the proposed activities and experiences involved in the career development program. scholar costs must be justified as specifically required for the proposed career development program and based on institutional policies for salaries paid to individuals in similar positions, regardless of the source of funds. these expenses must be itemized in the proposed budget.annual direct costs of up to $30,000 per scholar may be requested for the following types of expenses: consultant costs, research supplies, equipment, and technical personnel; travel to attend research meetings or training; tuition, fees, and books related to didactic courses or career development activities; and statistical services, including personnel and computer time. these expenses must be justified as specifically required by the proposed program and must not duplicate items generally available at the applicant institution.costs may not be pooled and used for advertising, recruitment, or other programs unrelated or indirectly related to the research activities of individual scholars.indirect costs (also known as facilities & administrative [f&a] costs) are reimbursed at 8% of modified total direct costs (exclusive of tuition and fees, consortium costs in excess of $25,000, and expenditures for equipment), rather than on the basis of a negotiated rate agreement.nih grants policies as described in the nih grants policy statement will apply to the applications submitted and awards made from this foa.higher education institutionsthe following types of higher education institutions are always encouraged to apply for nih support as public or private institutions of higher education:nonprofits other than institutions of higher educationgovernmentsotherthe sponsoring institution must assure support for the proposed program. appropriate institutional commitment to the program includes the provision of adequate staff, facilities, and educational resources that can contribute to the planned program.the applicant institution must have a strong and high-quality research program in the area(s) proposed under this foa and must have the requisite faculty, staff, potential trainees and facilities on site to conduct the proposed institutional program. in many cases, it is anticipated that the proposed program will complement other ongoing career development programs occurring at the applicant institution and that a substantial number of program faculty will have active research projects in which participating scholars may gain relevant experiences consistent with their research interests and goals.non-domestic (non-u.s.) entities (foreign institutions) are not eligible to apply.non-domestic (non-u.s.) components of u.s. organizations are not eligible to apply.applicant organizationsapplicant organizations must complete and maintain the following registrations as described in the sf 424 (r&r) application guide to be eligible to apply for or receive an award. all registrations must be completed prior to the application being submitted. registration can take 6 weeks or more, so applicants should begin the registration process as soon as possible. the nih policy on late submission of grant applications states that failure to complete registrations in advance of a due date is not a valid reason for a late submission.program directors/principal investigators (pd(s)/pi(s))all pd(s)/pi(s) must have an era commons account. pd(s)/pi(s) should work with their organizational officials to either create a new account or to affiliate their existing account with the applicant organization in era commons. if the pd/pi is also the organizational signing official, they must have two distinct era commons accounts, one for each role. obtaining an era commons account can take up to 2 weeks.any individual(s) with the skills, knowledge, and resources necessary to carry out the proposed research training program as the training program director/principal investigator (training pd/pi) is invited to work with his/her organization to develop an application for support. individuals from underrepresented racial and ethnic groups as well as individuals with disabilities are always encouraged to apply for nih support. for institutions/organizations proposing multiple pds/pis, visit the multiple program director/principal investigator policy and submission details in the senior/key person profile (expanded) component of the sf 424 (r&r) application guide.the pd/pi should be an established investigator in the scientific area in which the application is targeted and capable of providing both administrative and scientific leadership to the development and implementation of the proposed program. the pd/pi will be responsible for the selection and appointment of scholars to the approved research career development program, and for the overall direction, management, administration, and evaluation of the program. the pd/pi will be expected to monitor and assess the program and submit all documents and reports as required. the pd/pi has responsibility for the day to day administration of the program and is responsible for appointing members of the advisory committee (when applicable), using their recommendations to determine the appropriate allotment of funds.this foa does not require cost sharing as defined in the nih grants policy statement.applicant organizations may submit more than one application, provided that each application is programmatically distinct.the nih will not accept duplicate or highly overlapping applications under review at the same time. this means that the nih will not accept:program faculty should have strong records as researchers, including recent publications and successful competition for research support in the area of the proposed research training program. program faculty should also have a record of research training, including successful, former trainees who have established productive careers relevant to the nih mission.programs are encouraged to build a diverse team of preceptors/mentors that includes, for example, faculty from underrepresented groups, women, and faculty at different career stages (i.e., junior as well as senior faculty). (see the notice of nih's interest in diversity.)scholars to be supported by the institutional career development program must be at the career level for which the planned program is intended. scholars are expected to devote a minimum of 9 person-months (75% of full-time professional effort) during the appointment on the k12 award. a scholar should have an active u.s. licensure to practice medicine in us. scholars who are ophthalmic surgeons may request between 6 and 9 person-months (50% to 75%) of full-time professional effort conducting research and career development activities. scholars must be citizens or noncitizen nationals of the united states or have been lawfully admitted for permanent residence at the time of appointment. additional details on citizenship requirements are available in the nih grants policy statement.at the time of appointment to the k12 program, scholars must have a clinical degree and perform clinical duties.a scholar may be appointed for up to three years and no new scholar(s) can be appointed in the last year of funding.individuals may receive up to 6 years of aggregate career development grant-support including any combination of support from a nei institutional mentored physician scientist award (k12) and mentored clinical scientist research career development award (k08) or mentored patient-oriented research career development award (k23).the application forms package specific to this opportunity must be accessed through assist, grants.gov workspace or an institutional system-to-system solution. links to apply using assist or grants.gov workspace are available in part 1 of this foa. see your administrative office for instructions if you plan to use an institutional system-to-system solution.it is critical that applicants follow the training (t) instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide except where instructed in this funding opportunity announcement to do otherwise. conformance to the requirements in the application guide is required and strictly enforced. applications that are out of compliance with these instructions may be delayed or not accepted for review.all page limitations described in the sf424 (r&r) application guide and the table of page limits must be followed.instructions for application submissionthe following section supplements the instructions found in the sf424 (r&r) application guide and should be used for preparing an application to this foa.follow all instructions provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.follow all instructions provided in the sf424 (r&r) application.follow all instructions provided in the sf424 (r&r) application, with the following additional modifications:substitute the term “scholars” for all references to “trainees” in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, and substitute the term “career development” for all references to “training” in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.project summary/abstract. provide an abstract of the entire application. include the objectives, rationale and design of the research career development program, as well as key activities in the training plan. indicate the planned duration of appointments, the projected number of scholars including their levels (i.e., postdoctoral, faculty), and intended scholar outcomes.other attachments. an advisory committee is not a required component of a training program. however, if an advisory committee is intended, provide a plan for the appointment of an advisory committee to monitor progress of the career development program. the composition, roles, responsibilities, and desired expertise of committee members, frequency of committee meetings, and other relevant information should be included. describe how the advisory committee will evaluate the overall effectiveness of the program. proposed advisory committee members should be named in the application if they have been invited to participate at the time the application is submitted. renewal applications with advisory committees should include the names of all committee members during the past project period. please name your file “advisory_committee.pdf”.the filename provided for each “other attachment” will be the name used for the bookmark in the electronic application in era commons.follow all instructions provided in the sf424 (r&r) application.follow all instructions provided in the sf424 (r&r) application.follow all instructions provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guidefollow all instructions provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide with the following additional modifications:the phs 398 research training program plan form is comprised of the following sections:follow all instructions provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide with the following additional modifications:particular attention must be given to the required training data tables. the program is encouraged to use only the following tables from training data tables:tables 2, 4, 5b, 6b, 7, and 8c. applicants should summarize, in the body of the application, key data from the tables that highlight the characteristics of the applicant pool, faculty mentors, the educational and career outcomes of participants, and other factors that contribute to the overall environment of the program.training programprogram planprogram administration.describe the acknowledged strengths, leadership and administrative skills, training experience, scientific expertise, and active research of the pd/pi. relate these strengths to the proposed management of the career development program. describe the planned strategy and administrative structure to be used to oversee and monitor the program. if there are multiple pds/pis, then the plan for program administration is expected to synergize with the “multiple pd/pi leadership plan” section of the application.institutions with existing programs must explain what distinguishes this program from the others, how their programs will synergize with one another, if applicable, and make it clear that the pool of faculty, potential scholars, and resources are robust enough to support additional programs. when a program administrator position is planned, a description of the scientific expertise, leadership, and administrative capabilities essential to coordinate a program for developing investigators must be included in the application.in the event that a clinical trial may be proposed, provide documentation of the pd/pi(s) expertise, experience, and ability to oversee the organization, management and implementation of the clinical trial, including any feasibility or ancillary study, proposed by scholar(s).proposed training.in the event that a clinical trial may be proposed, provide documentation of the administrative, data coordinating, enrollment and laboratory/testing centers, appropriate for the clinical trial, including any feasibility or ancillary study, proposed by scholar(s).for renewal applications, highlight how the training program has evolved in response to changes in relevant scientific and technical knowledge, educational practices, and to evaluation of the training program.for renewal applications, highlight how the training program has evolved in response to changes in relevant scientific and technical knowledge, educational practices, and to evaluation of the training program.institutional environment and commitment to the program.the sponsoring institution must assure support for the proposed program including assurance that sufficient time will be allowed for the pds/pis and other program faculty to contribute to the proposed program, and that there will be protected time for scholars (9 person months, equivalent to 75%) selected for the program.plan for instruction in the responsible conduct of researchindividuals are required to comply with the instructions for plan for instruction in the responsible conduct of research as provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.program faculty.if any mentors will supervise a scholar proposing to either lead a clinical trial, or gain research experience in a clinical trial, provide documentation of his/her expertise, experience, and ability to provide guidance in the organization, management and implementation of the proposed clinical trial, ancillary, or feasibility study and help him/her to meet the study timelines.trainee candidates.if the event that a clinical trial may be proposed, discuss the potential of prospective scholars (k12) to organize, manage, and implement the proposed clinical trial, feasibility or ancillary study.appendixlimited items are allowed in the appendix. follow all instructions for the appendix as described in the sf424 (r&r) application guide; any instructions provided here are in addition to thesf424 (r&r) application guide instructions.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed, with the following additional modifications:study record: phs human subjects and clinical trials informationdo not use. attempts to submit a full, detailed study record will result in a validation error.delayed onset studynote: delayed onset does not apply to a study that can be described but will not start immediately (i.e., delayed start).if you answered “yes” to the question “are human subjects involved?” on the r&r other project information form, you must complete a delayed onset study.if you check the “anticipated clinical trial” box within your delayed onset study, then the justification attachment must acknowledge that additional clinical trial information will be provided to the awarding component before any appointee begins independent clinical trial research.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.see part 1. section iii.1 for information regarding the requirement for obtaining a unique entity identifier and for completing and maintaining active registrations in system for award management (sam), nato commercial and government entity (ncage) code (if applicable), era commons, and grants.gov.part i. overview information contains information about key dates and times. applicants are encouraged to submit applications before the due date to ensure they have time to make any application corrections that might be necessary for successful submission. when a submission date falls on a weekend or federal holiday, the application deadline is automatically extended to the next business day. organizations must submit applications to grants.gov (the online portal to find and apply for grants across all federal agencies). applicants must then complete the submission process by tracking the status of the application in the era commons, nih’s electronic system for grants administration. nih and grants.gov systems check the application against many of the application instructions upon submission. errors must be corrected and a changed/corrected application must be submitted to grants.gov on or before the application due date and time. if a changed/corrected application is submitted after the deadline, the application will be considered late. applications that miss the due date and time are subjected to the nih policy on late application submission.applicants are responsible for viewing their application before the due date in the era commons to ensure accurate and successful submission. information on the submission process and a definition of on-time submission are provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.this initiative is not subject to intergovernmental review.all nih awards are subject to the terms and conditions, cost principles, and other considerations described in the nih grants policy statement. pre-award costs are allowable only as described in the nih grants policy statement. any additional costs associated with the decision to allow research elective credit for short-term research training are not allowable charges on an institutional training grant.applications must be submitted electronically following the instructions described in the sf424 (r&r) application guide. paper applications will not be accepted.applicants must complete all required registrations before the application due date. section iii. eligibility information contains information about registration.for assistance with your electronic application or for more information on the electronic submission process, visit how to apply – application guide. if you encounter a system issue beyond your control that threatens your ability to complete the submission process on-time, you must follow the dealing with system issues guidance. for assistance with application submission, contact the application submission contacts in section vii.important reminders:all pd(s)/pi(s) must include their era commons id in the credential field of the senior/key person profile component of the sf424(r&r) application package. failure to register in the commons and to include a valid pd/pi commons id in the credential field will prevent the successful submission of an electronic application to nih. the applicant organization must ensure that the duns number it provides on the application is the same number used in the organization’s profile in the era commons and for the system for award management (sam). additional information may be found in the sf424 (r&r) application guide. see more tips for avoiding common errors.upon receipt, applications will be evaluated for completeness and compliance with application instructions by the center for scientific review, nih. applications that are incomplete or non-compliant will not be reviewed.in order to expedite review, applicants are requested to notify the nei referral office by email at libermane@mail.nih.gov when the application has been submitted. please include the foa number and title, pd/pi name, and title of the application.applicants are required to follow the instructions for post-submission materials, as described in the policy. any instructions provided here are in addition to the instructions in the policy.only the review criteria described below will be considered in the review process.applications submitted to the nih in support of the nih mission are evaluated for scientific and technical merit through the nih peer review system.reviewers will provide an overall impact score to reflect their assessment of the likelihood that the proposed training program will prepare individuals for successful, productive scientific research careers and thereby exert a sustained influence on the research field(s) involved, in consideration of the following review criteria and additional review criteria (as applicable for the project proposed).reviewers will consider each of the review criteria below in the determination of the merit of the training program, and give a separate score for each. when applicable, the reviewers will consider relevant questions in the context of proposed short-term training. an application does not need to be strong in all categories to be judged likely to have major scientific impact.career development program and environmentprogram director(s)/principal investigator(s) (pd(s)/pi(s))mentorsdo the mentors have appropriate expertise and experience, as well as track records of past mentoring and training?are the quality and extent of the mentors’ roles in providing guidance and scientific advice to the scholars acceptable? are the mentors currently engaged in relevant research?scholarstraining recordas applicable for the project proposed, reviewers will evaluate the following additional items while determining scientific and technical merit, and in providing an overall impact score, but will not give separate scores for these items.protections for human subjectsgenerally not applicable. reviewers should bring any concerns to the attention of the scientific review officer.inclusion of women, minorities, and individuals across the lifespangenerally not applicable. reviewers should bring any concerns to the attention of the scientific review officer.vertebrate animalsgenerally not applicable. reviewers should bring any concerns to the attention of the scientific review officer.biohazardsgenerally not applicable. reviewers should bring any concerns to the attention of the scientific review officer.training in methods for enhancing reproducibilitydoes the plan for instruction in methods for enhancing reproducibility describe how the program will provide training in scientific reasoning, rigorous research design, relevant experimental methods, consideration of relevant biological variables such as sex, authentication of key biological and/or chemical resources, quantitative approaches, and data analysis and interpretation, appropriate to field of study and the level and prior preparation of the trainees?resubmissionsfor resubmissions, the committee will evaluate the application as now presented, taking into consideration the responses to comments from the previous scientific review group and changes made to the project.renewalsfor renewals, the committee will consider the progress made in the last funding period, including on the recruitment plan to enhance diversity, and training in the responsible conduct of research. does the application describe the program’s accomplishments over the past funding period(s)? are changes proposed that would improve or strengthen the career development experience? is there evidence of a successful past training record of the pd/pi and mentors, including the success of former scholars in seeking independent support and establishing productive scientific research careers?revisionsfor revisions, the committee will consider the appropriateness of the proposed expansion of the scope of the project. if the revision application relates to a specific aspect of the original application that was not recommended for approval by the committee, then the committee will consider whether the responses to comments from the previous scientific review group are adequate and whether substantial changes are clearly evident.as applicable for the project proposed, reviewers will consider each of the following items, but will not give scores for these items, and should not consider them in providing an overall impact score.recruitment plan to enhance diversitypeer reviewers will separately evaluate the recruitment plan to enhance diversity after the overall score has been determined. reviewers will examine the strategies to be used in the recruitment of prospective individuals from underrepresented groups. the plan will be rated as acceptable or unacceptable, and the consensus of the review committee will be included in an administrative note in the summary statement.training in the responsible conduct of researchall applications for support under this foa must include a plan to fulfill nih requirements for instruction in the responsible conduct of research (rcr). taking into account the specific characteristics of the career development program, the level of scholar experience, and the particular circumstances of the scholars, the reviewers will evaluate the adequacy of the proposed rcr career development in relation to the following five required components: 1) format - does the plan satisfactorily address the format of instruction, e.g., lectures, coursework and/or real-time discussion groups, including face-to-face interaction? (a plan involving only on-line instruction is not acceptable.); 2) subject matter – does the plan include a sufficiently broad selection of subject matter, such as conflict of interest, authorship, data management, human subjects and animal use, laboratory safety, research misconduct, research ethics? 3) faculty participation - does the plan adequately describe how faculty will participate in the instruction? for renewal applications, are all career development faculty who served as course directors, speakers, lecturers, and/or discussion leaders during the past project period named in the application? 4) duration of instruction - does the plan meet the minimum requirements for rcr, i.e., at least eight contact hours of instruction? 5) frequency of instruction – does the plan meet the minimum requirements for rcr, i.e., at least once during each career stage (undergraduate, post-baccalaureate, predoctoral, postdoctoral, and faculty levels) and at a frequency of no less than once every four years?for renewal applications, does the progress report document acceptable rcr instruction in the five components described above? does the plan describe how participation in rcr instruction is being monitored? are appropriate changes in the plan for rcr instruction proposed in response to feedback and in response to evolving issues related to responsible conduct of research?plans and past record will be rated as acceptable or unacceptable, and the summary statement will provide the consensus of the review committee.select agent researchreviewers will assess the information provided in this section of the application, including (1) the select agent(s) to be used in the proposed research, (2) the registration status of all entities where select agent(s) will be used, (3) the procedures that will be used to monitor possession use and transfer of select agent(s), and (4) plans for appropriate biosafety, biocontainment, and security of the select agent(s).budget and period of supportreviewers will consider whether the budget and the requested period of support are fully justified and reasonable in relation to the proposed research.applications will be evaluated for scientific and technical merit by (an) appropriate scientific review group(s), convened by the nei in accordance with nih peer review policy and procedures, using the stated review criteria. assignment to a scientific review group will be shown in the era commons.as part of the scientific peer review, all applications:applications will be assigned on the basis of established phs referral guidelines to the appropriate nih institute or center. applications will compete for available funds with all other recommended applications . following initial peer review, recommended applications will receive a second level of review by the national advisory eye council. the following will be considered in making funding decisions:after the peer review of the application is completed, the pd/pi will be able to access his or her summary statement (written critique) via the era commons. refer to part 1 for dates for peer review, advisory council review, and earliest start date information regarding the disposition of applications is available in the nih grants policy statement.if the application is under consideration for funding, nih will request "just-in-time" information from the applicant as described in the nih grants policy statement. a formal notification in the form of a notice of award (noa) will be provided to the applicant organization for successful applications. the noa signed by the grants management officer is the authorizing document and will be sent via email to the grantee’s business official. awardees must comply with any funding restrictions described in section iv.5. funding restrictions. selection of an application for award is not an authorization to begin performance. any costs incurred before receipt of the noa are at the recipient's risk. these costs may be reimbursed only to the extent considered allowable pre-award costs. any application awarded in response to this foa will be subject to terms and conditions found on the award conditions and information for nih grants website. this includes any recent legislation and policy applicable to awards that is highlighted on this website.individual awards are based on the application submitted to, and as approved by, the nih and are subject to the ic-specific terms and conditions identified in the noa.clinicaltrials.gov: if an award provides for one or more clinical trials. by law (title viii, section 801 of public law 110-85), the "responsible party" must register and submit results information for certain “applicable clinical trials” on the clinicaltrials.gov protocol registration and results system information website (https://register.clinicaltrials.gov). nih expects registration and results reporting of all trials whether required under the law or not. for more information, see https://grants.nih.gov/policy/clinical-trials/reporting/index.htminstitutional review board or independent ethics committee approval: grantee institutions must ensure that all protocols are reviewed by their irb or iec. to help ensure the safety of participants enrolled in nih-funded studies, the awardee must provide nih copies of documents related to all major changes in the status of ongoing protocols.data and safety monitoring requirements: the nih policy for data and safety monitoring requires oversight and monitoring of all nih-conducted or -supported human biomedical and behavioral intervention studies (clinical trials) to ensure the safety of participants and the validity and integrity of the data. further information concerning these requirements is found at http://grants.nih.gov/grants/policy/hs/data_safety.htm and in the application instructions (sf424 (r&r) and phs 398).investigational new drug or investigational device exemption requirements: consistent with federal regulations, clinical research projects involving the use of investigational therapeutics, vaccines, or other medical interventions (including licensed products and devices for a purpose other than that for which they were licensed) in humans under a research protocol must be performed under a food and drug administration (fda) investigational new drug (ind) or investigational device exemption (ide).all nih grant and cooperative agreement awards include the nih grants policy statement as part of the noa. for these terms of award, see the nih grants policy statement part ii: terms and conditions of nih grant awards, subpart a: general and part ii: terms and conditions of nih grant awards, subpart b: terms and conditions for specific types of grants, grantees, and activities. more information is provided at award conditions and information for nih grants.recipients of federal financial assistance (ffa) from hhs must administer their programs in compliance with federal civil rights laws that prohibit discrimination on the basis of race, color, national origin, disability, age and, in some circumstances, religion, conscience, and sex. this includes ensuring programs are accessible to persons with limited english proficiency. the hhs office for civil rights provides guidance on complying with civil rights laws enforced by hhs. please see https://www.hhs.gov/civil-rights/for-providers/provider-obligations/index.html and http://www.hhs.gov/ocr/civilrights/understanding/section1557/index.html.hhs recognizes that research projects are often limited in scope for many reasons that are nondiscriminatory, such as the principal investigator’s scientific interest, funding limitations, recruitment requirements, and other considerations. thus, criteria in research protocols that target or exclude certain populations are warranted where nondiscriminatory justifications establish that such criteria are appropriate with respect to the health or safety of the subjects, the scientific study design, or the purpose of the research. for additional guidance regarding how the provisions apply to nih grant programs, please contact the scientific/research contact that is identified in section vii under agency contacts of this foa.please contact the hhs office for civil rights for more information about obligations and prohibitions under federal civil rights laws at https://www.hhs.gov/ocr/about-us/contact-us/index.html or call 1-800-368-1019 or tdd 1-800-537-7697.in accordance with the statutory provisions contained in section 872 of the duncan hunter national defense authorization act of fiscal year 2009 (public law 110-417), nih awards will be subject to the federal awardee performance and integrity information system (fapiis) requirements. fapiis requires federal award making officials to review and consider information about an applicant in the designated integrity and performance system (currently fapiis) prior to making an award. an applicant, at its option, may review information in the designated integrity and performance systems accessible through fapiis and comment on any information about itself that a federal agency previously entered and is currently in fapiis. the federal awarding agency will consider any comments by the applicant, in addition to other information in fapiis, in making a judgement about the applicant’s integrity, business ethics, and record of performance under federal awards when completing the review of risk posed by applicants as described in 45 cfr part 75.205 “federal awarding agency review of risk posed by applicants.” this provision will apply to all nih grants and cooperative agreements except fellowships.not applicablewhen multiple years are involved, awardees will be required to submit the research performance progress report (rppr) annually. continuation support will not be provided until the required forms are submitted and accepted.failure by the grantee institution to submit required forms in a timely, complete, and accurate manner may result in an expenditure disallowance or a delay in any continuation funding for the award.the federal funding accountability and transparency act of 2006 (transparency act), includes a requirement for awardees of federal grants to report information about first-tier subawards and executive compensation under federal assistance awards issued in fy2011 or later. all awardees of applicable nih grants and cooperative agreements are required to report to the federal subaward reporting system (fsrs) available at www.fsrs.gov on all subawards over $25,000. see the nih grants policy statement for additional information on this reporting requirement.the institution must submit a completed statement of appointment (phs form 2271) for each scholar appointed for 8 weeks or more. grantees must submit the phs 2271 data electronically using the xtrain system. more information on xtrain is available at xtrain (era commons). an appointment or reappointment may begin any time during the budget period, but not before the budget period start date of the grant year.a final rppr, invention statement, and the expenditure data portion of the federal financial report are required for closeout of an award as described in the nih grants policy statement. evaluation results should be included as part of the final rppr.in accordance with the regulatory requirements provided at 45 cfr 75.113 and appendix xii to 45 cfr part 75, recipients that have currently active federal grants, cooperative agreements, and procurement contracts from all federal awarding agencies with a cumulative total value greater than $10,000,000 for any period of time during the period of performance of a federal award, must report and maintain the currency of information reported in the system for award management (sam) about civil, criminal, and administrative proceedings in connection with the award or performance of a federal award that reached final disposition within the most recent five-year period. the recipient must also make semiannual disclosures regarding such proceedings. proceedings information will be made publicly available in the designated integrity and performance system (currently fapiis). this is a statutory requirement under section 872 of public law 110-417, as amended (41 u.s.c. 2313). as required by section 3010 of public law 111-212, all information posted in the designated integrity and performance system on or after april 15, 2011, except past performance reviews required for federal procurement contracts, will be publicly available. full reporting requirements and procedures are found in appendix xii to 45 cfr part 75 – award term and conditions for recipient integrity and performance matters.in carrying out its stewardship of human resource-related programs, the nih may request information essential to an assessment of the effectiveness of this program from databases and from participants themselves. participants may be contacted after the completion of this award for periodic updates on various aspects of their employment history, publications, support from research grants or contracts, honors and awards, professional activities, and other information helpful in evaluating the impact of the program.the overall evaluation of the program will be based on metrics that will include, but are not limited to, the following:we encourage inquiries concerning this funding opportunity and welcome the opportunity to answer questions from potential applicants.era commons help desk (questions regarding assist, era commons, application errors and warnings, documenting system problems that threaten submission by the due date, and post-submission issues) finding help online: http://grants.nih.gov/support/ (preferred method of contact)telephone: 301-402-7469 or 866-504-9552 (toll free)general grants information (questions regarding application instructions, application processes, and nih grant resources) email: grantsinfo@nih.gov (preferred method of contact) telephone: 301-637-3015grants.gov customer support (questions regarding grants.gov registration and workspace) contact center telephone: 800-518-4726 email: support@grants.govneeraj agarwal, phd national eye institute (nei) telephone: 301-451-2020 email: agarwalnee@nei.nih.govbrian hoshaw, phd national eye institute (nei) telephone: 301-451-2020 email: brian.hoshaw@nih.govkaren robinson-smith national eye institute (nei) telephone: 301-451-2020 email: karen.robinson.smith@nei.nih.govrecently issued trans-nih policy notices may affect your application submission. a full list of policy notices published by nih is provided in the nih guide for grants and contracts. all awards are subject to the terms and conditions, cost principles, and other considerations described in the nih grants policy statement.awards are made under the authorization of sections 301 and 405 of the public health service act as amended (42 usc 241 and 284) and under federal regulations 42 cfr part 52 and 45 cfr part 75.weekly toc for this announcement nih funding opportunities and noticesnote: for help accessing pdf, rtf, ms word, excel, powerpoint, audio or video files, see help downloading files.