Development and Validation of a Multi-functional, Multi-purpose Quantitative Tool for Dermal Physiologically-Based Pharmacokinetic (PBPK) Modeling (U01) Clinical Trial Optional
https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/rfa-files/RFA-FD-23-015.html
u.s. food and drug administration (fda)note: the policies, guidelines, terms, and conditions stated in this announcement may differ from those used by the nih. where this funding opportunity announcement (foa) provides specific written guidance that may differ from the general guidance provided in the grant application form, please follow the instructions given in this foa.the fda does not follow the nih page limitation guidelines or the nih review criteria. applicants are encouraged to consult with fda agency contacts for additional information regarding page limits and the fda objective review process.center for drug evaluation and research (cder)development and validation of a multi-functional, multi-purpose quantitative tool for dermal physiologically-based pharmacokinetic (pbpk) modeling (u01) clinical trial optionalu01 research project – cooperative agreementsnewnonerfa-fd-23-015nonesee section iii. 3. additional information on eligibility.93.103the purpose of this funding opportunity is to develop and validate an enhanced mechanistic pbpk model to reliably describe the skin permeation of active pharmaceutical ingredients in topical drug products applied on the skin surface of virtual subjects by accounting for the drug product quality attributes and the metamorphosis these products undergo post application. the goal is to develop an in silico tool and to assess its capability to predict skin absorption for reference listed drug and test drug products considering their potentially different formulation compositions and quality attributes and the dynamic changes they undergo post application. this in silico tool (validated using appropriate datasets) is intended to identify parameters that may impact therapeutic equivalence between a reference listed drug and a test drug product applied on the skin and to inform decisions on generic drug development for these products.january 5, 2023january 10, 2023january 23, 2023march 20, 2023 by 11:59 pm eastern time.applicants are encouraged to apply early to allow adequate time to make any corrections to errors found in the application during the submission process by the due date.applicants should be aware that on-time submission means that an application is submitted error free (of both grants.gov and era commons errors) by 11:59 pm eastern time on the application due date.late applications will not be accepted for this foa.not applicableapril 2023not applicablejuly 2023march 21, 2023not applicableit is critical that applicants follow the research (r) instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, except where instructed to do otherwise (in this foa or in a notice from the nih guide for grants and contracts). conformance to all requirements (both in the application guide and the foa) is required and strictly enforced. applicants must read and follow all application instructions in the application guide as well as any program-specific instructions noted in section iv. when the program-specific instructions deviate from those in the application guide, follow the program-specific instructions. applications that do not comply with these instructions may be delayed or not accepted for review.part 1. overview information part 2. full text of the announcementsection i. funding opportunity description section ii. award information section iii. eligibility information section iv. application and submission information section v. application review information section vi. award administration information section vii. agency contacts section viii. other informationbackground:mechanistic modeling and simulation approaches, such as physiologically based pharmacokinetic (pbpk) modeling, have been proven extremely useful in the drug development process, guiding decision-making for innovator and generic drug developers. to address challenges with the development of topical generic drug products, these in silico tools have been employed predict the absorption (permeation) of active pharmaceutical ingredients (apis) through the skin. these in silico tools, particularly dermal pbpk models, integrate information on skin physiology and incorporate api- and formulation-specific characteristics leading to the predictions of drug amounts absorbed through the different skin layers in a virtual population.importantly, the mechanistic nature of dermal pbpk models allows for the identification of model parameters related to skin physiology, api properties and drug product quality attributes that may impact the local or systemic bioavailability of the drug, and to assess their clinical relevance. this is increasingly important for generic drug development and bioequivalence assessments. ideally, a validated, fit for purpose, dermal pbpk model may be leveraged to decrease the need for human testing, overcome drug product-specific challenges associated with certain experimental methodologies used to establish bioequivalence, and decrease the cost, time and use of other resources when developing a generic drug product.several commercially available and open source pbpk modeling and simulation platforms for skin absorption are currently being developed. the majority of these models are limited in their ability to account for formulation characteristics and metamorphosis phenomena, and to assess how these considerations can impact the absorption of apis applied on the skin. no model or modeling platform has yet been extensively and systematically evaluated for its ability to account for differences in drug product characteristics such as rheological properties, formulation ph, emulsion droplet size and api particle size distributions, and to predict how any differences in these formulation characteristics may impact the local bioavailability of an api (for example, when comparing a reference standard (rs) product and a test product).another relevant consideration for in silico modeling is that the evaporation of formulation components (e.g., a co-solvent) can induce changes in the concentration of the dissolved api (relative to its saturation solubility) and in its thermodynamic activity, thereby modulating its topical bioavailability. similarly, topical bioavailability may also be modulated by the hydration of the different layers of the skin's stratum corneum by the skin's absorption of water from topical formulations, or by its absorption of formulation co-solvents (e.g., propylene glycol, isopropyl alcohol, ethanol), which may facilitate the transport of an api in different layers of the skin by a variety of mechanisms. both of these effects associated with the evaporation and skin absorption of topical formulation components may occur simultaneously.to accurately predict the local (skin) and systemic api concentration profiles, it is critical that a mechanistic pbpk model captures these dynamics of formulation vehicle/co-solvent evaporation and absorption, and their potential role in modulating topical bioavailability. thus, to validate such an in silico model for its intended purpose (i.e., to support topical generic drug product development and regulatory assessment) necessitates that a model is validated to accurately predict how topical bioavailability is modulated by differences between an rs and a test product in drug product quality attributes (formulation characteristics), as well as by any differences in metamorphosis between an rs and a test product. to that end, current dermal pbpk models need enhancements that expand and validate their capabilities, leveraging observed in vivo pharmacokinetic cutaneous and plasma data for specific drug products and the corresponding drug product quality (formulation characterization) and formulation metamorphosis data for those same drug products.objectives:the purpose of this funding opportunity is to develop and validate an enhanced mechanistic pbpk model that will reliably describe the skin absorption of apis applied in topical drug products on the skin surface of virtual subjects, by accounting for a product's quality attributes (formulation characteristics) and by accounting for the metamorphosis that a product undergoes during, and following, application upon the skin. the goal is to accurately incorporate into the proposed model all relevant physicochemical and structural properties of topical drug products, and to validate their interplay with the skin physiology and their impact on skin absorption of an api by leveraging appropriate in vitro data (i.e., the physicochemical and structural characterization of the drug product) and in vivo data (i.e., cutaneous pharmacokinetics of the api) for drug products of interest as well as informative formulation variants. an important objective of this funding opportunity is to understand and quantitatively describe the dynamic changes that topical drug products undergo during and after application on the skin. increased weight is placed on the innovation and approach (see section v) for assessing the predictability (verification/validation) of the enhanced mechanistic pbpk model in accounting for product metamorphosis observed in experimental data.upon successful completion of this research, a mechanistic pbpk model for topical drug products will be developed that demonstrates enhanced capabilities in predicting the impact of differences in the quality attributes and metamorphosis profiles between a test and reference product on local api bioavailability and in vivo product performance. comprehensive validation of the performance of the model, demonstrated through the work conducted within the scope of this funding opportunity, is intended to establish its credibility as an in silico tool that can support decisions on topical generic drug product development and regulatory assessment.detailed description:specific areas of scientific interest would include research in both of two main areas, as outlined below:research area 1: drug product metamorphosis implemented in a validated mechanistic dermal pbpk model1.1. develop an enhanced mechanistic pbpk model for topical drug products that considers the dynamic processes of api absorption as well as formulation vehicle/co-solvent absorption and evaporation happening simultaneously.1.2. identify (in collaboration with fda scientists) topical drug products that undergo relevant changes during and/or following application on the skin surface (e.g., evaporation, precipitation/crystallization and api particle dissolution) to be used for model verification/validation. the selected drug products should provide examples that illustrate the relevant types of metamorphosis discussed above. information on the formulation characteristics (product quality attributes) should be readily available, or feasible to generate with appropriate experimentation performed within the scope of this research project.1.3. experimentally study the aforementioned dynamic processes and their impact on api and vehicle/co-solvent permeation through the skin using study designs and experimental methods that can reasonably represent in vivo conditions of product usage (i.e., biorelevant, biopredictive). skin absorption/permeation may be assessed with appropriate in vitro and in vivo cutaneous pharmacokinetic methodologies (e.g., in vitro permeation testing, dermal open flow microperfusion, dermal microdialysis and spectroscopy-based techniques). the data described above may be retrieved from the literature, depending upon data quality and the availability of individual profiles and the relevance of study conditions.1.4. compare model predictions to the observed data that will be extracted from the literature and/or generated within the scope of this funding opportunity and assess the performance of the model. further model enhancements/modifications may be necessary to improve model predictability.1.5. disseminate the outcomes of this funding opportunity showing the model performance. experimental data generated within the scope of this funding opportunity to support model validation should be made available into the public domain by the end of the grant period, or within a reasonable timeframe determined in collaboration with fda scientists.research area 2: drug product formulation characteristics (quality attributes) implemented in a validated mechanistic dermal pbpk model2.1. develop an enhanced mechanistic pbpk model for topical drug products that considers formulation composition and drug product quality attributes routinely used to characterize the physicochemical and structural properties of topical semisolid dosage forms. these may include, but are not limited to, particle size distribution, globule size distribution, rheological behavior, and formulation ph.2.2. identify (in collaboration with fda scientists) topical drug products with apis for which cutaneous pharmacokinetics profiles are quantifiable and for which information on the product formulation characteristics (quality attributes) is either readily available or feasible to generate with appropriate experimentation performed within the scope of this research project.2.3. manufacture intentionally modified formulation variants (topical semisolid formulations) that are expected to show different cutaneous pharmacokinetics profiles relative to the topical drug products identified previously (refer to 2.2 above). conduct in vitro characterization studies to study the product quality attributes of these formulation variants.2.4. experimentally study the cutaneous pharmacokinetics profiles of the api resulting from application of the aforementioned topical drug products (refer to 2.2 above) and their formulation variants (refer to 2.3 above) under study designs and with experimental methodologies that can reasonably represent in vivo conditions of product usage (i.e., biorelevant, biopredictive). skin permeation may be assessed with appropriate in vitro and in vivo cutaneous pharmacokinetic methodologies (e.g., in vitro permeation testing, dermal open flow microperfusion, dermal microdialysis and spectroscopy-based techniques). the data described above may be retrieved from the literature, depending upon data quality and the availability of individual profiles and the relevance of study conditions.2.5. compare model predictions to the observed data that will be extracted from the literature and/or generated within the scope of this funding opportunity and assess the performance of the model. further model enhancements/modifications may be necessary to improve model predictability.2.6. disseminate the outcomes of this funding opportunity showing the improved model performance. experimental data generated within the scope of this funding opportunity to support model validation should be made available into the public domain by the end of the grant period, or within a reasonable timeframe determined in collaboration with fda scientists.the rationale for offering the funding opportunity as a three-year award is to provide sufficient time and resources for the awardee to engage to an iterative process where informative datasets are generated and used to assess the performance of a proposed enhanced pbpk model. based on the performance assessment outcomes, additional experimental work may be needed to support further model modifications. the ultimate goal is to deliver a fully validated dermal pbpk model that will be able to provide reliable population predictions of the rate and extent of api bioavailability for topical drug products with formulation differences that have the potential to impact local (topical) or systemic availability of the api, and in vivo product performance.consistent with the nature of this funding opportunity involving mathematical model/software development, manufacturing of topical formulations, and generating in vitro or in vivo experimental data on cutaneous pharmacokinetics for rationally selected/manufactured topical semisolid dosage forms, a multidisciplinary team with expertise across different research areas would be ideally suited to accomplish the goals of the funding opportunity. the investigators should be able to demonstrate a record of successfully conducting research in the field of dermal pbpk model development and validation, formulation development for semisolid dosage forms applied on the skin, and cutaneous pharmacokinetics testing.the intent of the cooperative agreement is that the award recipient will work collaboratively with fda scientists to refine the research strategy proposed by the applicant, develop study designs and protocols, orchestrate study conduct, analyze data and publish the results. the final research strategy would be developed based upon the innovation and expertise of the award recipient, in collaboration with feedback from the fda to ensure that the study designs are aligned with the objectives of the award.note: the expectation is that the data generated as an outcome of this research award, including but not necessarily limited to any individual replicate/subject-level data (not just summary results), any model constructs and data sets, and/or any computer code that represents an outcome of the award should be shared with the fda office of generic drugs (ogd) prior to the completion of the award period, and it is strongly preferred that fda would explicitly be granted permission to make such data publicly available after a reasonable amount of time following the completion of the award period (e.g. 1 year after the end of the award period); the applicant's data sharing plan will specifically be considered when scoring the 'significance' of the application.see section viii. other information for award authorities and regulations.cooperative agreement: a support mechanism used when there will be substantial federal scientific or programmatic involvement. substantial involvement means that, after award, fda scientific or program staff will assist, guide, coordinate, or participate in project activities. see section vi.2 for additional information about the substantial involvement for this foa.newthe oer glossary and the sf424 (r&r) application guide provide details on these application types. only those application types listed here are allowed for this foa.optional: accepting applications that either propose or do not propose clinical trial(s)need help determining whether you are doing a clinical trial?the number of awards is contingent upon fda appropriations and the submission of a sufficient number of meritorious applications. award(s) will provide one (1) year of support and include future recommended support for two (2) additional year(s) contingent upon annual appropriations, availability of funding and satisfactory recipient performance.fda/cder intends to commit up to $500,000 in fy 2023 to fund up to two (2) awards.application budgets need to reflect the actual needs of the proposed project. and should not exceed the following in total costs (direct and indirect) per award:yr 01: $250,000yr 02: $250,000yr 03: $250,000the scope of the proposed project should determine the project period. the maximum project period is three (3) years.hhs grants policies as described in the hhs grants policy statement will apply to the applications submitted and awards made from this foa.higher education institutionsthe following types of higher education institutions are always encouraged to apply for fda support as public or private institutions of higher education:nonprofits other than institutions of higher educationfor-profit organizationslocal governmentsothernon-domestic (non-u.s.) entities (foreign institutions) are eligible to apply.non-domestic (non-u.s.) components of u.s. organizations are eligible to apply.foreign components, as defined in the hhs grants policy statement, are allowed.applicant organizationsapplicant organizations must complete and maintain the following registrations as described in the sf 424 (r&r) application guide to be eligible to apply for or receive an award. all registrations must be completed prior to the application being submitted. registration can take 6 weeks or more, so applicants should begin the registration process as soon as possible. failure to complete registrations in advance of a due date is not a valid reason for a late submission.program directors/principal investigators (pd(s)/pi(s))all pd(s)/pi(s) must have an era commons account. pd(s)/pi(s) should work with their organizational officials to either create a new account or to affiliate their existing account with the applicant organization in era commons. if the pd/pi is also the organizational signing official, they must have two distinct era commons accounts, one for each role. obtaining an era commons account can take up to 2 weeks.any individual(s) with the skills, knowledge, and resources necessary to carry out the proposed research as the program director(s)/principal investigator(s) (pd(s)/pi(s)) is invited to work with his/her organization to develop an application for support. individuals from diverse backgrounds, including underrepresented racial and ethnic groups, individuals with disabilities, and women are always encouraged to apply for fda support.for institutions/organizations proposing multiple pds/pis, visit the multiple program director/principal investigator policy and submission details in the senior/key person profile (expanded) component of the sf424 (r&r) application guide.this foa does not require cost sharing as defined in the hhs grants policy statement.applicant organizations may submit more than one application, provided that each application is scientifically distinct.the fda will not accept duplicate or highly overlapping applications under review at the same time. this means that the fda will not accept:the application forms package specific to this opportunity must be accessed through assist, grants.gov workspace or an institutional system-to-system solution. links to apply using assist or grants.gov workspace are available in part 1 of this foa. see your administrative office for instructions if you plan to use an institutional system-to-system solution.it is critical that applicants follow the research (r) instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, except where instructed in this funding opportunity announcement to do otherwise. conformance to the requirements in the application guide is required and strictly enforced. applications that are out of compliance with these instructions may be delayed or not accepted for review.although a letter of intent is not required, is not binding, and does not enter into the review of a subsequent application, the information that it contains allows fda staff to estimate the potential review workload and plan the review.by the date listed in part 1. overview information, prospective applicants are asked to submit a letter of intent that includes the following information:the letter of intent should be sent to:shashi malhotra food and drug administration office of acquisitions and grants services telephone: 240-402-7592 email: shashi.malhotra@fda.hhs.gova technical session will be held for prospective applicants in february, 2023. the conference call information will be provided to prospective applicants that submit a letter of intent. the technical session will provide an overview of the submission requirements and allow prospective applicants an opportunity to ask questions regarding the application process. participation in the technical session is optional, but strongly encouraged.all page limitations described in the sf424 application guide and the table of page limits must be followed, with the following exceptions or additional requirements:for this specific foa, the research strategy section is limited to 30 pages.the following section supplements the instructions found in the sf424 (r&r) application guide and should be used for preparing an application to this foa.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed, with the following additional instructions:all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.resource sharing plan: individuals are required to comply with the instructions for the resource sharing plans as provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, with the following modification:appendix:only limited appendix materials are allowed. follow all instructions for the appendix as described in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.when involving human subjects research, clinical research, and/or clinical trials (and when applicable, clinical trials research experience) follow all instructions for the phs human subjects and clinical trials information form in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, with the following additional instructions:if you answered “yes” to the question “are human subjects involved?” on the r&r other project information form, you must include at least one human subjects study record using the study record: phs human subjects and clinical trials information form or delayed onset study record.study record: phs human subjects and clinical trials informationall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.delayed onset studynote: delayed onset does not apply to a study that can be described but will not start immediately (i.e., delayed start).all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.foreign (non-u.s.) institutions must follow policies described in the hhs grants policy statement, and procedures for foreign institutions.see part 1. section iii.1 for information regarding the requirement for obtaining a unique entity identifier and for completing and maintaining active registrations in system for award management (sam), nato commercial and government entity (ncage) code (if applicable), era commons, and grants.govpart i. overview information contains information about key dates and times. applicants are encouraged to submit applications before the due date to ensure they have time to make any application corrections that might be necessary for successful submission.organizations must submit applications to grants.gov (the online portal to find and apply for grants across all federal agencies). applicants must then complete the submission process by tracking the status of the application in the era commons, fda’s electronic system for grants administration. era commons and grants.gov systems check the application against many of the application instructions upon submission. errors must be corrected and a changed/corrected application must be submitted to grants.gov on or before the application due date and time. if a changed/corrected application is submitted after the deadline, the application will be considered late. late applications will not be accepted for this foa.applicants are responsible for viewing their application before the due date in the era commons to ensure accurate and successful submission.information on the submission process and a definition of on-time submission are provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.this initiative is not subject to intergovernmental review.all fda awards are subject to the terms and conditions, cost principles, and other considerations described in the hhs grants policy statement and 45 cfr 75, currently in effect or implemented during the period of the award, other department regulations and policies in effect at the time of the award, and applicable statutory provisions.pre-award costs are allowable only as described in the hhs grants policy statement.additional funding restrictions may be part of the notice of award.applications must be submitted electronically following the instructions described in the sf424 (r&r) application guide. paper applications will not be accepted.applicants must complete all required registrations before the application due date. section iii. eligibility information contains information about registration.for assistance with your electronic application or for more information on the electronic submission process, visit how to apply – application guide. for assistance with application submission, contact the application submission contacts in section vii.important reminders:all pd(s)/pi(s) must include their era commons id in the credential field of the senior/key person profile form. failure to register in the commons and to include a valid pd/pi commons id in the credential field will prevent the successful submission of an electronic application to fda. see section iii of this foa for information on registration requirements.the applicant organization must ensure that the unique entity identifier provided on the application is the same identifier used in the organization’s profile in the era commons and for the system for award management. additional information may be found in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.see more tips for avoiding common errors.upon receipt, applications will be evaluated for completeness and compliance with application instructions by the assigned grants management specialist and responsiveness by components of participating organizations, fda. applications that are incomplete, non-compliant and/or nonresponsive will not be reviewed.post-submission materials are those submitted after submission of the grant application but prior to objective review. they are not intended to correct oversights or errors discovered after submission of the application. fda accepts limited information between the time of initial submission of the application and the time of objective review. applicants must contact the assigned grants management specialist to receive approval, prior to submitting any post submission materials. acceptance and/or rejection of any post submission materials is at the sole discretion of the fda. any inquiries regarding post submission materials should be directed to the assigned grants management specialist.only the review criteria described below will be considered in the review process.reviewers will consider each of the review criteria below in the determination of scientific/technical merit.does the project address an important problem or a critical barrier to progress in the field? is the prior research that serves as the key support for the proposed project rigorous? considering the usefulness of the research outcomes and the provisions for public access to the data and results described in the data sharing plan, if the aims of the project are achieved, how will scientific knowledge, technical capability, and/or clinical practice be improved? how will successful completion of the aims change the concepts, methods, technologies, treatments, services, or preventative interventions that drive this field?are the pd(s)/pi(s), collaborators, and other researchers well suited to the project? if early stage investigators or those in the early stages of independent careers, do they have appropriate experience and training? if established, have they demonstrated an ongoing record of accomplishments that have advanced their field(s)? if the project is collaborative or multi-pd/pi, do the investigators have complementary and integrated expertise; are their leadership approach, governance and organizational structure appropriate for the project?does the application challenge and seek to shift current research or clinical practice paradigms by utilizing novel theoretical concepts, approaches or methodologies, instrumentation, or interventions? are the concepts, approaches or methodologies, instrumentation, or interventions novel to one field of research or novel in a broad sense? is a refinement, improvement, or new application of theoretical concepts, approaches or methodologies, instrumentation, or interventions proposed?are the overall strategy, methodology, and analyses well-reasoned and appropriate to accomplish the specific aims of the project? have the investigators included plans to address weaknesses in the rigor of prior research that serves as the key support for the proposed project? have the investigators presented strategies to ensure a robust and unbiased approach, as appropriate for the work proposed? are potential problems, alternative strategies, and benchmarks for success presented? if the project is in the early stages of development, will the strategy establish feasibility and will particularly risky aspects be managed? have the investigators presented adequate plans to address relevant biological variables, such as sex, for studies in vertebrate animals or human subjects?if the project involves human subjects and/or clinical research, are the plans to address1) the protection of human subjects from research risks, and2) inclusion (or exclusion) of individuals on the basis of sex/gender, race, and ethnicity, as well as the inclusion or exclusion of individuals of all ages (including children and older adults), justified in terms of the scientific goals and research strategy proposed?will the scientific environment in which the work will be done contribute to the probability of success? are the institutional support, equipment and other physical resources available to the investigators adequate for the project proposed? will the project benefit from unique features of the scientific environment, subject populations, or collaborative arrangements?as applicable for the project proposed, reviewers will evaluate the following additional items but will not give separate scores for these items and should not consider them in providing an overall score.for research that involves human subjects but does not involve one of the categories of research that are exempt under 45 cfr part 46, the committee will evaluate the justification for involvement of human subjects and the proposed protections from research risk relating to their participation according to the following five review criteria: 1) risk to subjects, 2) adequacy of protection against risks, 3) potential benefits to the subjects and others, 4) importance of the knowledge to be gained, and 5) data and safety monitoring for clinical trials.for research that involves human subjects and meets the criteria for one or more of the categories of research that are exempt under 45 cfr part 46, the committee will evaluate: 1) the justification for the exemption, 2) human subjects involvement and characteristics, and 3) sources of materials. for additional information on review of the human subjects section, please refer to the guidelines for the review of human subjects.when the proposed project involves human subjects and/or clinical research, the committee will evaluate the proposed plans for the inclusion (or exclusion) of individuals on the basis of sex/gender, race, and ethnicity, as well as the inclusion (or exclusion) of individuals of all ages (including children and older adults) to determine if it is justified in terms of the scientific goals and research strategy proposed. for additional information on review of the inclusion section, please refer to the guidelines for the review of inclusion in clinical research.the committee will evaluate the involvement of live vertebrate animals as part of the scientific assessment according to the following criteria: (1) description of proposed procedures involving animals, including species, strains, ages, sex, and total number to be used; (2) justifications for the use of animals versus alternative models and for the appropriateness of the species proposed; (3) interventions to minimize discomfort, distress, pain and injury; and (4) justification for euthanasia method if not consistent with the avma guidelines for the euthanasia of animals. applicants should have an olaw assurance in place to be eligible for an award involving any vertebrate animal work. for additional information on review of the vertebrate animals section, please refer to the worksheet for review of the vertebrate animal section.reviewers will assess whether materials or procedures proposed are potentially hazardous to research personnel and/or the environment, and if needed, determine whether adequate protection is proposed.not applicable.not applicable.not applicable.reviewers will assess whether the project presents special opportunities for furthering research programs through the use of unusual talent, resources, populations, or environmental conditions that exist in other countries and either are not readily available in the united states or augment existing u.s. resources.reviewers will assess the information provided in this section of the application, including 1) the select agent(s) to be used in the proposed research, 2) the registration status of all entities where select agent(s) will be used, 3) the procedures that will be used to monitor possession use and transfer of select agent(s), and 4) plans for appropriate biosafety, biocontainment, and security of the select agent(s).reviewers will comment on whether the following resource sharing plans, or the rationale for not sharing the following types of resources, are reasonable: (1) data sharing plan; (2) sharing model organisms; and (3) genomic data sharing plan (gds).for projects involving key biological and/or chemical resources, reviewers will comment on the brief plans proposed for identifying and ensuring the validity of those resources.reviewers will consider whether the budget and the requested period of support are fully justified and reasonable in relation to the proposed research.applications will be evaluated for scientific and technical merit by (an) appropriate objective review committee using the stated review criteria.as part of the objective review, all applications:appeals of objective review will not be accepted for applications submitted in response to this foa.applications will compete for available funds with all other recommended applications submitted in response to this foa. the following will be considered in making funding decisions:successful applicants will be notified of additional information that may be required or other actions leading to an award. the decision not to award a grant, or to award a grant at a particular funding level, is discretionary and is not subject to appeal to any fda or hhs official or board.a formal notification in the form of a notice of award (noa) will be provided to the applicant organization for successful applications. the noa signed by the grants management officer is the authorizing document and will be sent via email to the recipient’s business official.recipients must comply with any funding restrictions described in section iv.5. funding restrictions and in the notice of award. selection of an application for award is not an authorization to begin performance. any costs incurred before receipt of the noa are at the recipient's risk. these costs may be reimbursed only to the extent considered allowable pre-award costs.any application awarded in response to this foa will be subject to terms and conditions found in the hhs grants policy statement, this foa, and notice of award.institutional review board or independent ethics committee approval: for projects that involve human subjects and/or clinical trials research, recipient institutions must ensure that protocols are reviewed by their irb or iec. to help ensure the safety of participants enrolled in fda-funded studies, the recipient must provide fda copies of documents related to all major changes in the status of ongoing protocols.all fda grant and cooperative agreement awards include the hhs grants policy statement as part of the noa.if a recipient is successful and receives a notice of award, in accepting the award, the recipient agrees that any activities under the award are subject to all provisions currently in effect or implemented during the period of the award, other department regulations and policies in effect at the time of the award, and applicable statutory provisions.should the applicant organization successfully compete for an award, recipients of federal financial assistance (ffa) from hhs must administer their programs in compliance with federal civil rights laws that prohibit discrimination on the basis of race, color, national origin, disability, age and, in some circumstances, religion, conscience, and sex (including gender identify, sexual orientation, and pregnancy). this includes ensuring programs are accessible to persons with limited english proficiency and persons with disabilities. the hhs office for civil rights provides guidance on complying with civil rights laws enforced by hhs. please see https://www.hhs.gov/civil-rights/for-providers/provider-obligations/index.html and https://www.hhs.gov/civil-rights/for-individuals/nondiscrimination/index.htmlhhs recognizes that research projects are often limited in scope for many reasons that are nondiscriminatory, such as the principal investigator’s scientific interest, funding limitations, recruitment requirements, and other considerations. thus, criteria in research protocols that target or exclude certain populations are warranted where nondiscriminatory justifications establish that such criteria are appropriate with respect to the health or safety of the subjects, the scientific study design, or the purpose of the research. for additional guidance regarding how the provisions apply to fda grant programs, please contact the scientific/research contact that is identified in section vii under agency contacts of this foa.please contact the hhs office for civil rights for more information about obligations and prohibitions under federal civil rights laws at https://www.hhs.gov/ocr/about-us/contact-us/index.html or call 1-800-368-1019 or tdd 1-800-537-7697.in accordance with the statutory provisions contained in section 872 of the duncan hunter national defense authorization act of fiscal year 2009 (public law 110-417), fda awards will be subject to the federal awardee performance and integrity information system (fapiis) requirements. fapiis requires federal award making officials to review and consider information about an applicant in the designated integrity and performance system (currently fapiis) prior to making an award. an applicant, at its option, may review information in the designated integrity and performance systems accessible through fapiis and comment on any information about itself that a federal agency previously entered and is currently in fapiis. the federal awarding agency will consider any comments by the applicant, in addition to other information in fapiis, in making a judgement about the applicant’s integrity, business ethics, and record of performance under federal awards when completing the review of risk posed by applicants as described in 45 cfr part 75.205 and 2 cfr part 200.206 “federal awarding agency review of risk posed by applicants.” this provision will apply to all fda grants and cooperative agreements.fda considers the sharing of research resources developed through fda-sponsored research an important means to enhance the value and further the advancement of research. when research resources have been developed with fda funds and the associated research findings published, those findings must be made readily available to the scientific community.upon acceptance for publication, scientific researchers must submit the author’s final manuscript of the peer-reviewed scientific publication resulting from research supported in whole or in part with fda funds to the nih national library of medicine's (nlm) pubmed central (pmc). fda defines the author's final manuscript as the final version accepted for journal publication, which includes all modifications from the publishing peer review process. the pmc archive is the designated repository for these manuscripts for use by the public, health care providers, educators, scientists, and fda. please see the fda public access policy.termination provisions in 2 cfr 200.340 (a) (1-4) are applicable to awards issued under this notice of funding opportunity.additional terms and conditions regarding fda regulatory and cder programmatic requirements may be part of the notice of award.reporting requirements:all fda grants require both financial and performance reporting.financial reporting:a. financial expenditure reportsa required federal financial report (ffr) must be submitted annually. all annual ffrs must be submitted electronically using the payment management system (pms). this includes all initial ffrs being prepared for submission and any revised ffrs being submitted or re-submitted to fda. paper expenditure/ffr reports will not accepted.annual ffrs must be submitted for each budget period no later than 90 days after the end of the calendar quarter in which the budget period ended. the reporting period for an annual ffr will be that of the budget period for the particular grant; however, the actual submission date is based on the calendar quarter. if a grant is under expanded authorities, the grantee must indicate the carryover amount in section 12. remarks of the annual ffr.performance progress reporting:when multiple years (more than one budget period) are involved, recipients will be required to submit the research performance progress report (rppr) annually as required in the notice of award. annual rpprs must be submitted using the rppr module in era commons. the annual rppr must include a detailed budget. annual rpprs are due no later than 60 days prior to the start of the next budget period.failure to submit timely reports may affect future funding. additional financial and performance progress reports may be required for this award. any additional reporting requirements will be listed under section iv – special terms and condition of the notice of award.salary caps:none of the funds in this award shall be used to pay the salary of an individual at a rate in excess of the current executive level ii of the federal executive pay scale.certificates of confidentiality – 42 u.s.c. 241(d)recipients are responsible for complying with all requirements to protect the confidentiality of identifiable, sensitive information that is collected or used in biomedical, behavioral, clinical, or other research (including research on mental health and research on the use and effect of alcohol and other psychoactive drugs) funded wholly or in part by the federal government. see 42 u.s.c. 241(d). all research funded by fda, in whole or in part, that is within the scope of these requirements is deemed to be issued a “certificate of confidentiality” through these terms and conditions. certificates issued in this manner will not be issued as a separate document.recipients are expected to ensure that any investigator or institution not funded by fda who receives a copy of identifiable, sensitive information protected by these requirements, understand they are also subject to the requirements of 42 u.s.c. 241(d). recipients are also responsible for ensuring that any subrecipient that receives funds to carry out part of the fda award involving a copy of identifiable, sensitive information protected by these requirements understand they are also subject to subsection 42 u.s.c. 241(d).acknowledgment of federal support:when issuing statements, press releases, publications, requests for proposal, bid solicitations and other documents --such as tool-kits, resource guides, websites, and presentations (hereafter “statements”)--describing the projects or programs funded in whole or in part with fda federal funds, the recipient must clearly state:1. the percentage and dollar amount of the total costs of the program or project funded with federal money; and,2. the percentage and dollar amount of the total costs of the project or program funded by non-governmental sources.when issuing statements resulting from activities supported by fda financial assistance, the recipient entity must include an acknowledgement of federal assistance using one of the following statements.if the fda grant or cooperative agreement is not funded with other non-governmental sources:this [project/publication/program/website, etc.] [is/was] supported by the food and drug administration (fda) of the u.s. department of health and human services (hhs) as part of a financial assistance award [fain] totaling $xx with 100 percent funded by fda]/hhs. the contents are those of the author(s) and do not necessarily represent the official views of, nor an endorsement, by fda/hhs, or the u.s. government.if the fda grant or cooperative agreement is partially funded with other nongovernmental sources:this [project/publication/program/website, etc.] [is/was] supported by the food and drug administration (fda) of the u.s. department of health and human services (hhs) as part of a financial assistance award [fain] totaling $xx with xx percentage funded by fda/hhs and $xx amount and xx percentage funded by non-government source(s). the contents are those of the author(s) and do not necessarily represent the official views of, nor an endorsement, by fda/hhs, or the u.s. government.the federal award total must reflect total costs (direct and indirect) for all authorized funds (including supplements and carryover) for the total competitive segment up to the time of the public statement. any amendments by the recipient to the acknowledgement statement must be coordinated with fda. if the recipient plans to issue a press release concerning the outcome of activities supported by fda financial assistance, it should notify fda in advance to allow for coordination.additional prior approval requirements pertaining to acknowledgement of federal support, publications, press statements, etc. may be required, and if applicable, will be listed under section iv – special terms and condition of the notice of award.prior approval:all prior approval requests must be submitted using the prior approval module in era commons. any requests involving budgetary issues must include a new proposed budget and a narrative justification of the requested changes. if there are any questions regarding the need or requirement for prior approval for any activity or cost, the grantee is to contact the assigned grants management specialist prior to expenditure of funds.for grant awards not covered under expanded authorities, carryover and no cost extension (nce) requests will require prior approval. all carryover and nce requests should be submitted using the prior approval module in era commons. ****please review the section on expanded authorities to determine if this award is covered/not covered under expanded authorities and whether prior approval is needed for carryover and no cost extension requests.****the following activities require prior approval from fda on all awards:1. change in grantee organization2. significant rebudgeting3. change in scope or objectives4. deviation from terms and conditions of award5. change in key personnel which includes replacement of the pd/pi or other key personnel as specified on the noa.6. disengagement from the project for more than three months, or a 25 percent reduction in time devoted to the project, by the approved pd/pi. no individual may be committed to more than 100% professional time and effort. in the event that an individual's commitment exceeds 100%, the grantee must make adjustments to reduce effort. for fda-sponsored projects, significant reductions in effort (i.e., in excess of 25% of the originally proposed level of effort) for the pd/pi and key personnel named on named on this notice of award must receive written prior approval from fda.additional prior approval requirements may be required for this award, and if applicable, will be listed under section iv – special terms and condition of the notice of award.audits and monitoring:audit requirements:1. recipients of federal funds are subject to annual audit requirements as specified in 45 cfr 75.501 (https://www.ecfr.gov/cgi-bin/retrieveecfr?gp=1&sid=8040c4036b962cc9d75c3638dedce240&ty=html&h=l&r=part&n=pt45.1.75#se45.1.75_1501). grantees should refer to this regulation for the current annual federal fund expenditure threshold level which requires audit.2. foreign recipients are subject to the same audit requirements as for-profit organizations (specified in 45 cfr 75.501(h) through 75.501(k).3. for-profit and foreign entities can email their audit reports to auditresolution@hhs.gov or mail them to the following address:u.s. department of health and human services audit resolution division, room 549d attention: robin aldridge, director 200 independence avenue, sw washington, dc 20201monitoring:recipients are responsible for managing the day-to-day operations of grant-supported activities using their established controls and policies, as long as they are consistent with federal, dhhs and fda requirements. however, to fulfill their role in regard to the stewardship of federal funds, fda monitors our grants to identify potential problems and areas where technical assistance might be necessary. this active monitoring is accomplished through review of reports and correspondence from the recipient, audit reports, site visits, and other information available to fda.1. desk review: fda grants monitoring specialists will periodically reach out to recipients to request information for the completion of desk reviews. requested information may include:2. site visits: fda will conduct site visits when necessary and will notify the recipient with reasonable advance notice of any such visit(s).3. foreign entities: all foreign entities are subject to the same monitoring requirements as domestic entities. foreign entities covered under immunity executive orders will provide supporting documents for monitoring requirements unless such an action is a violation of the executive orders. recipients may discuss with the fda to come up with an alternate approach to satisfy the award monitoring requirements.all recipients will make reasonable efforts to resolve issues found, including audit findings. successful resolutions to issues are important as they are part of the grant performance review. all recipients are responsible for submitting all requested information in an expeditious manner. failure to submit timely reports and/or respond to inquiries from fda may affect future funding or enforcement actions, including withholding, or conversion to a reimbursement payment method.financial conflict of interest (fcoi):this award is subject to the financial conflict of interest (fcoi) regulation at 42 cfr part 50 subpart f.closeout requirements (when applicable):a final research performance progress report (frppr), final invention statement hhs-568 (if applicable), tangible personal property report sf-428 (if applicable), and statement of disposition of equipment (if applicable) must be submitted within 120 days after the expiration date of the project period. all closeout documents must be submitted electronically in era commons.the final federal financial report (ffr sf-425), must be submitted in pms and indicate the exact balance of unobligated funds and may not reflect unliquidated obligations. there must be no discrepancies between the final ffr expenditure data and ffr cash transaction data in the payment management system (pms). the expended funds reported on the final ffr must exactly match the disbursements and the charge advances in pms. it is the recipient's responsibility to reconcile reports submitted to pms and to the fda.program income:the grantee is required to report any program income generated during the project period of this grant. except for royalty income generated from patents and inventions, the amount and disposition of program income must be identified on lines 10 (l), (m), (n), and (o) of the grantee’s federal financial report (ffr) sf-425.examples of program income include (but are not limited to): fees for services performed during the grant or sub-grant period, proceeds from sale of tangible personal or real property, usage or rental fees, patent or copyright royalties, and proceeds from the sale of products and technology developed under the grant.any program income generated during the project period of this grant by the grantee or sub-grantee will be treated as identified below.treatment of program income:prohibition on certain telecommunications and video surveillance services or equipment:(a) as described in cfr 200.216, recipients and subrecipients are prohibited to obligate or spend grant funds (to include direct and indirect expenditures as well as cost share and program) to:(1) procure or obtain,(2) extend or renew a contract to procure or obtain; or(3) enter into contract (or extend or renew contract) to procure or obtain equipment, services, or systems that use covered telecommunications equipment or services as a substantial or essential component of any system, or as critical technology as part of any system. as described in pub. l. 115-232, section 889, covered telecommunications equipment is telecommunications equipment produced by huawei technologies company or zte corporation (or any subsidiary or affiliate of such entities).i. for the purpose of public safety, security of government facilities, physical security surveillance of critical infrastructure, and other national security purposes, video surveillance and telecommunications equipment produced by hytera communications corporation, hangzhou hikvision digital technology company, or dahua technology company (or any subsidiary or affiliate of such entities).ii. telecommunications or video surveillance services provided by such entities or using such equipment.iii. telecommunications or video surveillance equipment or services produced or provided by an entity that the secretary of defense, in consultation with the director of the national intelligence or the director of the federal bureau of investigation, reasonably believes to be an entity owned or controlled by, or otherwise, connected to the government of a covered foreign country.other:this award is subject to the requirements of 2 cfr part 25 for institutions to maintain an active registration in the system of award management (sam). should a consortium/subaward be issued under this award, a requirement for active registration in sam must be included.in accordance with the regulatory requirements provided at 45 cfr 75.113 and appendix xii to 45 cfr part 75, recipients that have currently active federal grants, cooperative agreements, and procurement contracts with cumulative total value greater than $10,000,000 must report and maintain information in the system for award management (sam) about civil, criminal, and administrative proceedings in connection with the award or performance of a federal award that reached final disposition within the most recent five-year period. the recipient must also make semiannual disclosures regarding such proceedings. proceedings information will be made publicly available in the designated integrity and performance system (currently the federal awardee performance and integrity information system (fapiis)). full reporting requirements and procedures are found in appendix xii to 45 cfr part 75.you must administer your project in compliance with federal civil rights laws that prohibit discrimination on the basis of race, color, national origin, disability, age and, in some circumstances, religion, conscience, and sex (including gender identity, sexual orientation, and pregnancy). this includes taking reasonable steps to provide meaningful access to persons with limited english proficiency and providing programs that are accessible to and usable by persons with disabilities. the hhs office for civil rights provides guidance on complying with civil rights laws enforced by hhs. see https://www.hhs.gov/civil-rights/for-providers/providerobligations/index.html and https://www.hhs.gov/civil-rights/forindividuals/nondiscrimination/index.html.the following special terms of award are in addition to, and not in lieu of, otherwise applicable u.s. office of management and budget (omb) administrative guidelines, u.s. department of health and human services (hhs) grant administration regulations at 45 cfr part 75, and other hhs, phs, and fda grant administration policies.the administrative and funding instrument used for this program will be the cooperative agreement, an "assistance" mechanism (rather than an "acquisition" mechanism), in which substantial fda programmatic involvement with the recipients is anticipated during the performance of the activities. under the cooperative agreement, fda's purpose is to support and stimulate the recipients' activities by involvement in and otherwise working jointly with the award recipients in a partnership role; it is not to assume direction, prime responsibility, or a dominant role in the activities. consistent with this concept, the dominant role and prime responsibility resides with the recipients for the project as a whole, although specific tasks and activities may be shared among the recipients and fda as defined below.the pd(s)/pi(s) will have the primary responsibility for:the pd(s)/pi(s) will have the primary responsibility for the scientific, technical, or programmatic aspects of the cooperative agreement and for day-to-day management of the project or program. the pd(s)/pi(s) will maintain general oversight for ensuring compliance with the financial and administrative aspects of the award, as well as ensuring that all staff have sufficient clearance and/or background checks to work on this project or program. this individual will work closely with designated officials within the recipient organization to create and maintain necessary documentation, including both technical and administrative reports; prepare justifications; appropriately acknowledge federal support in publications, announcements, news programs, and other media; and ensure compliance with other federal and organizational requirements.recipients will retain custody of and have primary rights to the data and software developed under these awards, subject to government rights of access consistent with current hhs, phs, and fda policies.additionally, pd(s)/pi(s) will:participate in site visits or attend meetings as requested by the fda. a portion of the budget should be reserved for such travel.submit data for quality assessment and/or validation in any manner if requested by fda.conduct the research in compliance with all applicable regulations, rules and guidance, and with the terms and conditions of award.make the resources available for site inspections during and/or after the study if requested by fda.fda may also request data be made available through speaking engagements and publications, presentations at scientific symposia and seminars, while making sure that confidentiality and privacy of the data is protected.provide fda any data obtained from investigations if requested by fda.note that any publication or oral presentation of regarding outcomes of this grant must undergo fda/cder review and approval process. this process can take 30-90 days.fda staff have substantial programmatic involvement that is above and beyond the normal stewardship role in awards, as described below:the program official (po) is the official responsible for the programmatic, scientific, and/or technical aspects of assigned applications and grants. the po's responsibilities include, but are not limited to, post-award monitoring of project/program performance, including review of progress reports and making site visits; and other activities complementary to those of the grants management officer (gmo). the po and the gmo work as a team in many of these activities.fda will provide technical monitoring and/or guidance of the work, including monitoring of data analysis, interpretation of analytical findings and their significance.fda will assist and approve (as deemed appropriate) the substance of publications, co-authorship of publications and data release.additionally, an agency po will be responsible for the scientific and programmatic stewardship of the award and will be named in the award notice.when multiple years are involved, recipients will be required to submit the research performance progress report (rppr) annually and financial statements as required in the notice of award.a final rppr, invention statement, and the expenditure data portion of the federal financial report are required for closeout of an award, as described in the terms and conditions of award and the hhs grants policy statement. fda foas outline intended goals and objectives. post award, fda will review and measure performance based on the details and outcomes that are shared within the rppr, as described at 45 cfr part 75.301 and 2 cfr part 200.301.the federal funding accountability and transparency act of 2006 (transparency act), includes a requirement for recipients of federal grants to report information about first-tier subawards and executive compensation under federal assistance awards issued in fy2011 or later. all recipients of applicable fda grants and cooperative agreements are required to report to the federal subaward reporting system (fsrs) available at www.fsrs.gov on all subawards over the threshold.in accordance with the regulatory requirements provided at 45 cfr 75.113 and 2 cfr part 200.113 and appendix xii to 45 cfr part 75 and 2 cfr part 200, recipients that have currently active federal grants, cooperative agreements, and procurement contracts from all federal awarding agencies with a cumulative total value greater than $10,000,000 for any period of time during the period of performance of a federal award, must report and maintain the currency of information reported in the system for award management (sam) about civil, criminal, and administrative proceedings in connection with the award or performance of a federal award that reached final disposition within the most recent five-year period. the recipient must also make semiannual disclosures regarding such proceedings. proceedings information will be made publicly available in the designated integrity and performance system (currently fapiis). this is a statutory requirement under section 872 of public law 110-417, as amended (41 u.s.c. 2313). as required by section 3010 of public law 111-212, all information posted in the designated integrity and performance system on or after april 15, 2011, except past performance reviews required for federal procurement contracts, will be publicly available. full reporting requirements and procedures are found in appendix xii to 45 cfr part 75 and 2 cfr part 200 – award term and condition for recipient integrity and performance matters.we encourage inquiries concerning this funding opportunity and welcome the opportunity to answer questions from potential applicants.era service desk (questions regarding assist, era commons, application errors and warnings, documenting system problems that threaten submission by the due date, and post-submission issues)finding help online: https://grants.nih.gov/support/index.html(preferred method of contact) telephone: 301-402-7469 or 866-504-9552 (toll free)grants.gov customer support (questions regarding grants.gov registration and workspace) contact center telephone: 800-518-4726 email: support@grants.goveleftheria tsakalozou center for drug evaluation and research (cder) telephone: 240-402-2726 email: eleftheria.tsakalozou@fda.hhs.govshashi malhotra office of acquisitions & grants services (oags) food and drug administration telephone: 240-402-7592 email: shashi.malhotra@fda.hhs.govshashi malhotra office of acquisitions & grants services (oags) food and drug administration telephone: 240-402-7592 email: shashi.malhotra@fda.hhs.govall awards are subject to the terms and conditions, cost principles, and other considerations described in the hhs grants policy statement, notice of award, and 45 cfr 75, currently in effect or implemented during the period of the award, other department regulations and policies in effect at the time of the award, and applicable statutory provisions .awards are made under the authorization of section 301 of the public health service act as amended (42 usc 241) and under federal regulations 42 cfr part 52 and 45 cfr part 75 and 2 cfr part 200.weekly toc for this announcement nih funding opportunities and noticesnote: for help accessing pdf, rtf, ms word, excel, powerpoint, audio or video files, see help downloading files.