Research Network to Promote Multidisciplinary Mechanistic and Translational Studies of Sickle Cell Disease Pain (U24, Clinical Trial Optional)
https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/rfa-files/RFA-AT-24-001.html
national institutes of health (nih)national center for complementary and integrative health (nccih)u24 resource-related research projects – cooperative agreementsnot-od-22-195 new nih "forms-h" grant application forms and instructions coming for due dates on or after january 25, 2023not-od-22-189 implementation details for the nih data management and sharing policynot-od-22-198 implementation changes for genomic data sharing plans included with applications due on or after january 25, 2023not-od-23-012 reminder: forms-h grant application forms & instructions must be used for due dates on or after january 25, 2023 - new grant application instructions now availablesee section iii. 3. additional information on eligibility.the purpose of this foa is to support a research network that promotes multidisciplinary mechanistic and translational studies of sickle cell disease (scd) pain. this network is expected to develop compelling research frameworks and model systems that will support interdisciplinary collaborations; initiate pilot projects to test novel mechanistic hypotheses in the high-priority research areas listed below and develop novel technologies and methodologies to study pain in the organ(s) typically impacted by scd. to accomplish these objectives, applicants can propose activities such as meetings, workshops, conferences, research collaborations, exchange of ideas through visiting scientist arrangements, or training opportunities. these activities will help identify unique research gaps and opportunities that can be addressed through the network in the form of pilot projects which will in turn generate the preliminary data needed for scd pain investigators to successfully compete for more substantial nih grants, including the helping to end addiction long-term® (heal) initiative grant awards. in addition, the network shall sustain its scientific impact through a variety of dissemination and outreach strategies, including publication of research frameworks, reviews, and other best practices to foster the growth and development of research in the following priority areas:required priority areas:optional priority areas:applications must propose new, high-impact activities to advance at least the first two required areas (minimum) and up to three optional areas (maximum) of these high-priority research areas.september 1, 2023all applications are due by 5:00 pm local time of applicant organization.applicants are encouraged to apply early to allow adequate time to make any corrections to errors found in the application during the submission process by the due date.no late applications will be accepted for this funding opportunity announcement.not applicableit is critical that applicants follow the instructions in the research (r) instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, except where instructed to do otherwise (in this foa or in a notice from nih guide for grants and contracts).conformance to all requirements (both in the application guide and the foa) is required and strictly enforced. applicants must read and follow all application instructions in the application guide as well as any program-specific instructions noted in section iv. when the program-specific instructions deviate from those in the application guide, follow the program-specific instructions.applications that do not comply with these instructions may be delayed or not accepted for review.there are several options available to submit your application through grants.gov to nih and department of health and human services partners. you must use one of these submission options to access the application forms for this opportunity.purposethe purpose of this foa is to support a research network that promotes multidisciplinary mechanistic and translational studies of sickle cell disease (scd) pain. this network is expected to develop compelling research frameworks and models to study scd pain that will support interdisciplinary collaborations; initiate pilot projects to test novel mechanistic hypotheses in the high-priority research areas; and develop novel models, technologies, and methodologies for the study of pain in the organ(s) typically impacted by scd. to accomplish these objectives, applicants can propose activities such as meetings, workshops, conferences, research collaborations, the exchange of ideas through visiting scientist arrangements, or training opportunities. these activities will help identify unique research gaps and opportunities that can be addressed through the network in the form of pilot projects which will in turn generate the preliminary data needed for scd pain investigators to successfully compete for more substantial nih grant awards, including the helping to end addiction long-term® (heal) initiative grant awards. in addition, the network shall sustain its scientific impact through a variety of dissemination and outreach strategies, including the publication of research frameworks, reviews, and other best practices.backgroundsickle cell disease (scd) is a lifelong disease predominantly impacting an undeserved minority population in the united states. pain is the most common clinical complication of scd. scd pain includes severe acute recurrent episodes (or painful crises), persistent nociceptive pain, and chronic neuropathic pain, spanning from childhood through adulthood. even after curative therapy for scd, severe chronic pain continues in about 40% of individuals. scd pain significantly and negatively impacts the health and quality of life of scd patients resulting in high hospitalization rates, missed school and workdays, poor functional and psychological outcomes, and increased mortality rates; however, scd pain is an understudied pain condition. the management of scd pain is complex and often doesn’t address comorbidities and complications.to better understand the status and potential future directions of scd pain research and pain management, the national center for complementary and integrative health (nccih), in collaboration with the national heart, lung, and blood institute (nhlbi), led an nih-wide virtual workshop in july 2021 on “approaches to effective therapeutic management of pain for people with sickle cell disease.” while it is well understood that scd is primarily a genetic disease, with well-known genetic mutations causing various levels of red blood cells sickling and there is an established understanding of the underlying pathophysiology, we currently do not have the same level of understanding regarding pain in scd patients. clinically, patients with scd often describe pain as deep, stabbing, electrical, throbbing, beating, spreading, or feeling like broken glass in the veins. there is enormous heterogeneity in the scd pain population, as well as within-individual variability in pain phenotypes. in addition, the pain trajectory in scd is unique and complicated. it starts with an acute pain episode, and the type of pain may change across the lifespan. most importantly, at the clinical level, scd pain, both acute and chronic, is often a multiorgan problem. acute scd pain may affect many organs such as the liver, spleen, kidney, intestine, chest, hands, or genitals. chronic scd pain may be manifested in the legs or gallbladder. many scd patients report severe headaches and central pain due to strokes. recently, several studies have reported musculoskeletal pain in patients with scd, which is believed to reflect acute and chronic injuries to muscles, joints, bones, or the associated central nervous system (cns). these pain conditions in scd have not been addressed with sufficient scientific research.in contrast to the clear multiorgan pain manifestation at the clinical level for patients with scd, the underlying basic and mechanistic research on what may be contributing to pain in many different organs or tissues as well as suitable therapeutic targets and intervention strategies to ameliorate the multiorgan pain in scd patients is largely missing. currently, most animal studies of scd pain focus on the skin, not on the organs actually impacted in scd patients. furthermore, preclinical and clinical studies of pain in organs and tissues impacted by scd are largely missing. current barriers in scd pain research include limited opportunities to integrate research across multiple disciplines; limited opportunities to connect scd pain researchers and experts from other pain fields; limited platforms for dissemination of knowledge among scd pain researchers and between researchers, clinicians, and patients; and limited diversity and inclusion of under-represented researchers.to overcome these barriers, nccih proposes the development of a multidisciplinary scd pain research network. this network will facilitate collaborations among hematologists, organ biologists, pain experts, physiologists, neuroscientists, psychologists, geneticists, microbiologists, immunologists, behavioral scientists, and clinicians. it will develop a framework and platform to enable translational and reverse translational studies on pain in multiple organs and tissues impacted in scd. potential outcomes include the development of innovative resources for scd pain research network. nccih proposes the development of a multidisciplinary scd pain research network. this network will facilitate collaborations among hematologists, organ biologists, pain experts, physiologists, neuroscientists, psychologists, geneticists, microbiologists, immunologists, behavioral scientists, and clinicians. it will develop a framework and platform to enable translational and reverse translational studies on pain in multiple organs and tissues impacted in scd. potential outcomes include the development of innovative resources for scd pain researchers such as humanized animal models; muscle, bone, joint, and visceral scd pain models and measurements; access to human tissues (plasma, feces, drgs, ipsc cells); and technology for omics, microbiome, neuroimmune and neuroimaging studies on scd pain. this research network will provide multidisciplinary cross training (such as intensive workshops, summer institutes, or visiting scholar programs), sponsor scientific meetings and conferences, and develop different platforms for information dissemination. also, this collaborative network will support small-scale pilot research projects that would enable and/or lay the groundwork for subsequent large-scale projects in the identified priority areas.requirements and scopethis foa is intended to support the development of a multidisciplinary research network designed to promote innovative mechanistic and translational studies of scd pain. the goal is to produce resources that will serve the field at large. applications must propose novel activities that are not feasible with existing resources.the scientific scope of a research network is limited to the following high-priority research areas:required priority areas:optional priority areas:applications must propose new, high-impact activities to advance at least the first two required areas (minimum) and up to three optional areas (maximum) of these high-priority research areas.scope of network activitiesnetwork support includes activities designed to bring together leading scientists across disciplines and institutions to develop at least two required priority areas of scd pain research. this program is intended to be flexible to support activities and develop unique research frameworks, concepts, methods, tools, and technologies as necessary to promote innovation in the field at large and to promote multidisciplinary mechanistic and translational studies on pain in the organ(s) typically affected by scd.required network activities to be included in the application:examples of network activities that can be proposed to promote multidisciplinary mechanistic and translational studies on scd pain include, but are not limited to:network structurethe networking activities required for these efforts are rarely covered under an individual grant award (e.g., r01, r21, r61/r33) and often do not fit the timelines for typical support mechanisms. in many instances the researchers who can support a successful network in an understudied area span multiple disciplines and must not be located at a single institution. therefore, this foa is designed to provide research resources that create opportunities to shape the direction of an understudied field by addressing network and infrastructure development.applicants should describe the types of expertise that will be sought. participation in network activities, including presenting at workshops, serving as faculty on summer institutes, or receiving pilot funding, will not constitute formal collaboration from the perspective of nih, except for those key personnel listed on the application. network activities are intended to advance the field at large. an important consideration in developing a network is the potential to grow the field substantially through the recruitment of new investigators rather than simply sustaining the original team.applicants must propose how network activities will be coordinated across institutions and how the proposed activities will effectively engage with other relevant activities at participating institutions.potential applicants are encouraged to contact scientific/research staff listed in section vii to discuss potential network development programs prior to the submission of an application. nccih encourages applicants to support network activities that will foster the diversity of the scientific workforce as described in the notice of nih’s interest in diversity (not-od-20-031). research shows that teams composed of scientists from diverse backgrounds and life experiences that value innovation and unique perspectives outperform homogenous teams.administration and meetingsnih, in collaboration with the awarded network’s program directors pd(s)/principal investigators pl(s), will establish post award a scd pain consortium steering committee. the steering committee will be composed of nih project scientist(s) and additional designees of nih, and network’ pd(s)/pi(s) and co-investigators as deemed necessary. nih will appoint a steering committee chair for the first award year. thereafter, a steering committee chair will be elected every 12 months from among the steering committee members by the committee. an individual may continue serving as chair for more than one year if all committee members agree. nih staff cannot serve as steering committee chair. the chair, together with the steering committee, will organize virtual meetings on a quarterly basis, or as needed, as well as an annual in-person meeting in the washington, d.c. area or a different location designated by the nih. all funded investigators will be expected to attend the annual meeting of the funded research network.responsiveness criteriaapplications not responsive to this foa:see section viii. other information for award authorities and regulations.investigators proposing nih-defined clinical trials may refer to the research methods resources website for information about developing statistical methods and study designs.cooperative agreement: a support mechanism used when there will be substantial federal scientific or programmatic involvement. substantial involvement means that, after award, nih scientific or program staff will assist, guide, coordinate, or participate in project activities. see section vi.2 for additional information about the substantial involvement for this foa.the oer glossary and the sf424 (r&r) application guide provide details on these application types. only those application types listed here are allowed for this foa.optional: accepting applications that either propose or do not propose clinical trial(s).need help determining whether you are doing a clinical trial?the following nih components intend to commit the following amounts in fy2024:nccih: $1,000,000 in total costs per year; will support 1 award.application budgets are limited to $600,000 in direct costs per yearthe scope of the proposed project should determine the project period. the maximum project period is 5 yearsnih grants policies as described in the nih grants policy statement will apply to the applications submitted and awards made from this foa.1. eligible applicantshigher education institutionsthe following types of higher education institutions are always encouraged to apply for nih support as public or private institutions of higher education:nonprofits other than institutions of higher educationfor-profit organizationslocal governmentsfederal governmentsothernon-domestic (non-u.s.) entities (foreign institutions) are not eligible to apply.non-domestic (non-u.s.) components of u.s. organizations are not eligible to apply.foreign components, as defined in the nih grants policy statement, are allowed.applicant organizationsapplicant organizations must complete and maintain the following registrations as described in the sf 424 (r&r) application guide to be eligible to apply for or receive an award. all registrations must be completed prior to the application being submitted. registration can take 6 weeks or more, so applicants should begin the registration process as soon as possible. the nih policy on late submission of grant applications states that failure to complete registrations in advance of a due date is not a valid reason for a late submission.program directors/principal investigators (pd(s)/pi(s))all pd(s)/pi(s) must have an era commons account. pd(s)/pi(s) should work with their organizational officials to either create a new account or to affiliate their existing account with the applicant organization in era commons. if the pd/pi is also the organizational signing official, they must have two distinct era commons accounts, one for each role. obtaining an era commons account can take up to 2 weeks.any individual(s) with the skills, knowledge, and resources necessary to carry out the proposed research as the program director(s)/principal investigator(s) (pd(s)/pi(s)) is invited to work with their organization to develop an application for support. individuals from diverse backgrounds, including underrepresented racial and ethnic groups, individuals with disabilities, and women are always encouraged to apply for nih support. see, reminder: notice of nih's encouragement of applications supporting individuals from underrepresented ethnic and racial groups as well as individuals with disabilities, not-od-22-019.for institutions/organizations proposing multiple pds/pis, visit the multiple program director/principal investigator policy and submission details in the senior/key person profile (expanded) component of the sf424 (r&r) application guide.2. cost sharingthis foa does not require cost sharing as defined in the nih grants policy statement.3. additional information on eligibilitynumber of applicationsapplicant organizations may submit more than one application, provided that each application is scientifically distinct.the nih will not accept duplicate or highly overlapping applications under review at the same time, per 2.3.7.4 submission of resubmission application. this means that the nih will not accept:1. requesting an application packagethe application forms package specific to this opportunity must be accessed through assist, grants.gov workspace or an institutional system-to-system solution. links to apply using assist or grants.gov workspace are available in part 1 of this foa. see your administrative office for instructions if you plan to use an institutional system-to-system solution.2. content and form of application submissionit is critical that applicants follow the instructions in the research (r) instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide except where instructed in this funding opportunity announcement to do otherwise. conformance to the requirements in the application guide is required and strictly enforced. applications that are out of compliance with these instructions may be delayed or not accepted for review.although a letter of intent is not required, is not binding, and does not enter into the review of a subsequent application, the information that it contains allows ic staff to estimate the potential review workload and plan the review.by the date listed in part 1. overview information, prospective applicants are asked to submit a letter of intent that includes the following information:the letter of intent should be sent to:jessica mcklveen, ph.d.telephone: 301-594-8018fax: 301-480-2419email: jessica.mcklveen@nih.govpage limitationsall page limitations described in the sf424 application guide and the table of page limits must be followed.the following section supplements the instructions found in the sf424 (r&r) application guide and should be used for preparing an application to this foa.sf424(r&r) coverall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.sf424(r&r) project/performance site locationsall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.sf424(r&r) other project informationall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.sf424(r&r) senior/key person profileall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.r&r budgetall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.applications must budget for study personnel to participate in an annual in-person meeting in the washington, d.c. area or a location designated by the nih of funded network.no less than one third and up to half of the proposed direct costs for the entire project may be budgeted for supporting at least two or more pilot studies. generally, the pilot funds will be distributed in the form of subcontracts to the third-party researcher's institution.r&r subaward budgetall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.phs 398 cover page supplementall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.phs 398 research planall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed, with the following additional instructions:the application must address how the proposed research network will have a substantial impact on the progress and quality of research relevant to mechanistic and translational studies of pain in individuals with sickle cell disease (scd). the application must address how the proposed networking activities will advance an understudied field of scd pain research in the context of complementary and integrative health approaches. the application must propose new high-impact activities that are not feasible with existing resources and funding opportunities.the research network is intended to serve the broader community of researchers engaged in scd pain research and is consequently unlikely to be limited to a single institution. for network activities that span multiple institutions, applicants must explain how those activities will be coordinated across institutions and how the proposed activities will effectively engage with other relevant activities at participating institutions.the research network must propose to support small-scale pilot projects. network funding for pilot projects should either advance broad network goals or support preliminary studies with potential to form the basis for independent research applications consistent with network goals. projects must include a formal plan to solicit, review, and select/prioritize requests for pilot funding, and evaluate pilot progression and outcomes in line with network priorities, in the approach section. applicants must describe the type and focus of potential pilot projects that would be solicited. however, a description of an actual pilot project should not be included.the application must also address plans for dissemination and access to ensure that the network and its products will be appropriately targeted for the highest impact to potential investigators. the application must describe how the proposed activities will have the potential to grow the field substantially through recruitment of new investigators rather than sustaining only the original team. applications must describe milestones appropriate for assessing the ongoing value of the proposed activities. applications must describe how the proposed activities will effectively engage with other relevant activities at participating institutions. for applications spanning multiple institutions, a plan for coordination across institutions must be clearly specified.the application must specify how all four network activities (as specified above) will be addressed. at least two required (and up to three optional) of the high-priority research areas from this list must be specified within the application:the specific high-priority research area must align with the intent of the foa for developing research infrastructure in scd pain field as outlined in the requirements and scope section). the application must span multiple disciplines.resource sharing plan:individuals are required to comply with the instructions for the resource sharing plans as provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.other plan(s): note: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023, the data management and sharing plan will be attached in the other plan(s) attachment in forms-h application forms packages.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed, with the following additional instructions:appendix:only limited appendix materials are allowed. follow all instructions for the appendix as described in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.phs human subjects and clinical trials informationwhen involving human subjects research, clinical research, and/or nih-defined clinical trials (and when applicable, clinical trials research experience) follow all instructions for the phs human subjects and clinical trials information form in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, with the following additional instructions:if you answered “yes” to the question “are human subjects involved?” on the r&r other project information form, you must include at least one human subjects study record using the study record: phs human subjects and clinical trials information form or delayed onset study record.study record: phs human subjects and clinical trials informationall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.delayed onset studynote: delayed onset does not apply to a study that can be described but will not start immediately (i.e., delayed start).all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.phs assignment request formall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.3. unique entity identifier and system for award management (sam)see part 1. section iii.1 for information regarding the requirement for obtaining a unique entity identifier and for completing and maintaining active registrations in system for award management (sam), nato commercial and government entity (ncage) code (if applicable), era commons, and grants.gov4. submission dates and timespart i. overview information contains information about key dates and times. applicants are encouraged to submit applications before the due date to ensure they have time to make any application corrections that might be necessary for successful submission. when a submission date falls on a weekend or federal holiday, the application deadline is automatically extended to the next business day.organizations must submit applications to grants.gov (the online portal to find and apply for grants across all federal agencies). applicants must then complete the submission process by tracking the status of the application in the era commons, nih’s electronic system for grants administration. nih and grants.gov systems check the application against many of the application instructions upon submission. errors must be corrected and a changed/corrected application must be submitted to grants.gov on or before the application due date and time. if a changed/corrected application is submitted after the deadline, the application will be considered late. applications that miss the due date and time are subjected to the nih policy on late application submission.applicants are responsible for viewing their application before the due date in the era commons to ensure accurate and successful submission.information on the submission process and a definition of on-time submission are provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.5. intergovernmental review (e.o. 12372)this initiative is not subject to intergovernmental review.6. funding restrictionsall nih awards are subject to the terms and conditions, cost principles, and other considerations described in the nih grants policy statement.pre-award costs are allowable only as described in the nih grants policy statement.7. other submission requirements and informationapplications must be submitted electronically following the instructions described in the sf424 (r&r) application guide. paper applications will not be accepted.applicants must complete all required registrations before the application due date. section iii. eligibility information contains information about registration.for assistance with your electronic application or for more information on the electronic submission process, visit how to apply – application guide. if you encounter a system issue beyond your control that threatens your ability to complete the submission process on-time, you must follow the dealing with system issues guidance. for assistance with application submission, contact the application submission contacts in section vii.important reminders:all pd(s)/pi(s) must include their era commons id in the credential field of the senior/key person profile form. failure to register in the commons and to include a valid pd/pi commons id in the credential field will prevent the successful submission of an electronic application to nih. see section iii of this foa for information on registration requirements.the applicant organization must ensure that the unique entity identifier provided on the application is the same identifier used in the organization’s profile in the era commons and for the system for award management. additional information may be found in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.see more tips for avoiding common errors.upon receipt, applications will be evaluated for completeness and compliance with application instructions by the center for scientific review and responsiveness by the national center for complementary and integrative health, nih. applications that are incomplete, non-compliant and/or nonresponsive will not be reviewed.in order to expedite review, applicants are requested to notify the nccih referral office by email at jessica.mcklveen@nih.gov when the application has been submitted. please include the foa number and title, pd/pi name, and title of the application.post submission materialsapplicants are required to follow the instructions for post-submission materials, as described in the policyany instructions provided here are in addition to the instructions in the policy.1. criteriaonly the review criteria described below will be considered in the review process. applications submitted to the nih in support of the nih mission are evaluated for scientific and technical merit through the nih peer review system.a proposed clinical trial application may include study design, methods, and intervention that are not by themselves innovative but address important questions or unmet needs. additionally, the results of the clinical trial may indicate that further clinical development of the intervention is unwarranted or lead to new avenues of scientific investigation.reviewers will provide an overall impact score to reflect their assessment of the likelihood for the project to exert a sustained, powerful influence on the research field(s) involved, in consideration of the following review criteria and additional review criteria (as applicable for the project proposed).reviewers will consider each of the review criteria below in the determination of scientific merit and give a separate score for each. an application does not need to be strong in all categories to be judged likely to have major scientific impact. for example, a project that by its nature is not innovative may be essential to advance a field.does the proposed center address the needs of the research network that it will serve? is the scope of activities proposed for the center appropriate to meet those needs? will successful completion of the aims bring unique advantages or capabilities to the research network?in addition, for applications involving clinical trialsare the scientific rationale and need for a clinical trial to test the proposed hypothesis or intervention well supported by preliminary data, clinical and/or preclinical studies, or information in the literature or knowledge of biological mechanisms? for trials focusing on clinical or public health endpoints, is this clinical trial necessary for testing the safety, efficacy or effectiveness of an intervention that could lead to a change in clinical practice, community behaviors or health care policy? for trials focusing on mechanistic, behavioral, physiological, biochemical, or other biomedical endpoints, is this trial needed to advance scientific understanding?for this particular announcement, note the following:how well will the type and focus of potential pilot projects advance broad network goals or provide a basis for future research applications addressing network goals?are the pd(s)/pi(s) and other personnel well suited to their roles in the center? do they have appropriate experience and training, and have they demonstrated experience and an ongoing record of accomplishments in managing scd pain research? do the investigators demonstrate significant experience with coordinating collaborative basic, mechanistic, and translational research? if the center is multi-pd/pi, do the investigators have complementary and integrated expertise and skills; are their leadership approach, governance, plans for conflict resolution, and organizational structure appropriate for the research network? does the applicant have experience overseeing selection and management of subawards, if needed?in addition, for applications involving clinical trialswith regard to the proposed leadership for the project, do the pd/pi(s) and key personnel have the expertise, experience, and ability to organize, manage and implement the proposed clinical trial and meet milestones and timelines? do they have appropriate expertise in study coordination, data management and statistics? for a multicenter trial, is the organizational structure appropriate and does the application identify a core of potential center investigators and staffing for a coordinating center?for this particular announcement, note the following:has a team of leading scientists across disciplines and institutions been assembled and, as a team, do they have the expertise needed to develop two (required) or more priority areas of scd pain research? does the multidisciplinary group of investigators assembled have the appropriate expertise needed to grow this field through recruitment of new investigators rather than sustaining only the original team? are they well positioned to support the activities of the proposed network and to integrate their efforts with broader strategic interests of potential network investigators on a larger scale?does the application propose novel organizational concepts and management strategies in coordinating the research network the center will serve? are the concepts, strategies, or instrumentation novel to one type of research program or applicable in a broad sense? is a refinement, improvement, or new application of organizational concepts, management strategies or instrumentation proposed?in addition, for applications involving clinical trialsdoes the design/research plan include innovative elements, as appropriate, that enhance its sensitivity, potential for information or potential to advance scientific knowledge or clinical practice?for this particular announcement, note the following:does the application explain how the proposed networking activities will advance an understudied field of scd pain research and why these goals cannot be met through existing institutional programs or structures?are the overall strategy, operational plan, and organizational structure well-reasoned and appropriate to accomplish the goals of the research network the center will serve? will the investigators promote strategies to ensure a robust and unbiased scientific approach across the research network, as appropriate for the work proposed? are potential problems, alternative strategies, and benchmarks for success presented? if the research network is in the early stages of operation, does the proposed strategy adequately establish feasibility and manage the risks associated with the activities of the research network? is there an appropriate plan for work-flow and a well-established timeline proposed? have the investigators presented adequate plans to ensure consideration of relevant biological variables, such as sex, for studies of vertebrate animals or human subjects?in addition, for applications involving clinical trialsdoes the application adequately address the following, if applicablestudy designis the study design justified and appropriate to address primary and secondary outcome variable(s)/endpoints that will be clear, informative and relevant to the hypothesis being tested? is the scientific rationale/premise of the study based on previously well-designed preclinical and/or clinical research? given the methods used to assign participants and deliver interventions, is the study design adequately powered to answer the research question(s), test the proposed hypothesis/hypotheses, and provide interpretable results? is the trial appropriately designed to conduct the research efficiently? are the study populations (size, gender, age, demographic group), proposed intervention arms/dose, and duration of the trial, appropriate and well justified?are potential ethical issues adequately addressed? is the process for obtaining informed consent or assent appropriate? is the eligible population available? are the plans for recruitment outreach, enrollment, retention, handling dropouts, missed visits, and losses to follow-up appropriate to ensure robust data collection? are the planned recruitment timelines feasible and is the plan to monitor accrual adequate? has the need for randomization (or not), masking (if appropriate), controls, and inclusion/exclusion criteria been addressed? are differences addressed, if applicable, in the intervention effect due to sex/gender and race/ethnicity?are the plans to standardize, assure quality of, and monitor adherence to, the trial protocol and data collection or distribution guidelines appropriate? is there a plan to obtain required study agent(s)? does the application propose to use existing available resources, as applicable?data management and statistical analysisare planned analyses and statistical approach appropriate for the proposed study design and methods used to assign participants and deliver interventions? are the procedures for data management and quality control of data adequate at clinical site(s) or at center laboratories, as applicable? have the methods for standardization of procedures for data management to assess the effect of the intervention and quality control been addressed? is there a plan to complete data analysis within the proposed period of the award?for this particular announcement, note the following:how effectively will the dissemination plan allow for sharing of network resources, products, and opportunities with the field at large?do the plans for dissemination and access ensure that the network and its products will be appropriately targeted for the highest impact to potential investigators? is there an adequate plan to solicit, review, prioritize, and support small-scale pilot project(s)? is there an adequate description of eligibility criteria, evaluation, and assessment of the likelihood of the proposed pilot project(s) to lead to a competitive nih (or equivalent) research application including relevant heal initiative applications? is there an adequate description of the type and focus of potential pilot projects?will the institutional environment in which the center will operate contribute to the probability of success in facilitating the research research network it serves? are the institutional support, equipment and other physical resources available to the investigators adequate for the center proposed? will the research network benefit from unique features of the institutional environment, infrastructure, or personnel? are resources available within the scientific environment to support electronic information handling?in addition, for applications involving clinical trialsif proposed, are the administrative, data coordinating, enrollment and laboratory/testing centers, appropriate for the trial proposed?does the application adequately address the capability and ability to conduct the trial at the proposed site(s) or centers? are the plans to add or drop enrollment centers, as needed, appropriate?if international site(s) is/are proposed, does the application adequately address the complexity of executing the clinical trial?if multi-sites/centers, is there evidence of the ability of the individual site or center to: (1) enroll the proposed numbers; (2) adhere to the protocol; (3) collect and transmit data in an accurate and timely fashion; and, (4) operate within the proposed organizational structure?for this particular announcement, note the following:how well will network activities be coordinated across institutions and how will they effectively engage with other relevant, already ongoing activities at the participating institutions? is a clear plan for coordination across multiple institutions specified?as applicable for the project proposed, reviewers will evaluate the following additional items while determining scientific and technical merit, and in providing an overall impact score, but will not give separate scores for these items.specific to applications involving clinical trialsis the study timeline described in detail, taking into account start-up activities, the anticipated rate of enrollment, and planned follow-up assessment? is the projected timeline feasible and well justified? does the project incorporate efficiencies and utilize existing resources (e.g., ctsas, practice-based research networks, electronic medical records, administrative database, or patient registries) to increase the efficiency of participant enrollment and data collection, as appropriate?are potential challenges and corresponding solutions discussed (e.g., strategies that can be implemented in the event of enrollment shortfalls)?for research that involves human subjects but does not involve one of the categories of research that are exempt under 45 cfr part 46, the committee will evaluate the justification for involvement of human subjects and the proposed protections from research risk relating to their participation according to the following five review criteria: 1) risk to subjects, 2) adequacy of protection against risks, 3) potential benefits to the subjects and others, 4) importance of the knowledge to be gained, and 5) data and safety monitoring for clinical trials.for research that involves human subjects and meets the criteria for one or more of the categories of research that are exempt under 45 cfr part 46, the committee will evaluate: 1) the justification for the exemption, 2) human subjects involvement and characteristics, and 3) sources of materials. for additional information on review of the human subjects section, please refer to the guidelines for the review of human subjects.when the proposed project involves human subjects and/or nih-defined clinical research, the committee will evaluate the proposed plans for the inclusion (or exclusion) of individuals on the basis of sex/gender, race, and ethnicity, as well as the inclusion (or exclusion) of individuals of all ages (including children and older adults) to determine if it is justified in terms of the scientific goals and research strategy proposed. for additional information on review of the inclusion section, please refer to the guidelines for the review of inclusion in clinical research.the committee will evaluate the involvement of live vertebrate animals as part of the scientific assessment according to the following criteria: (1) description of proposed procedures involving animals, including species, strains, ages, sex, and total number to be used; (2) justifications for the use of animals versus alternative models and for the appropriateness of the species proposed; (3) interventions to minimize discomfort, distress, pain and injury; and (4) justification for euthanasia method if not consistent with the avma guidelines for the euthanasia of animals. reviewers will assess the use of chimpanzees as they would any other application proposing the use of vertebrate animals. for additional information on review of the vertebrate animals section, please refer to the worksheet for review of the vertebrate animals section.reviewers will assess whether materials or procedures proposed are potentially hazardous to research personnel and/or the environment, and if needed, determine whether adequate protection is proposed.not applicablenot applicablenot applicableas applicable for the project proposed, reviewers will consider each of the following items, but will not give scores for these items, and should not consider them in providing an overall impact score.reviewers will assess whether the project presents special opportunities for furthering research programs through the use of unusual talent, resources, populations, or environmental conditions that exist in other countries and either are not readily available in the united states or augment existing u.s. resources.not applicablereviewers will assess the information provided in this section of the application, including 1) the select agent(s) to be used in the proposed research, 2) the registration status of all entities where select agent(s) will be used, 3) the procedures that will be used to monitor possession use and transfer of select agent(s), and 4) plans for appropriate biosafety, biocontainment, and security of the select agent(s).reviewers will comment on whether the resource sharing plan(s) (e.g., sharing model organisms) or the rationale for not sharing the resources, is reasonable.for network involving key biological and/or chemical resources, reviewers will comment on the brief plans proposed for identifying and ensuring the validity of those resources.reviewers will consider whether the budget and the requested period of support are fully justified and reasonable in relation to the proposed research.applications will be evaluated for scientific and technical merit by (an) appropriate scientific review group(s) convened by nccih, in accordance with nih peer review policy and procedures, using the stated review criteria. assignment to a scientific review group will be shown in the era commons.as part of the scientific peer review, all applications will receive a written critique.applications may undergo a selection process in which only those applications deemed to have the highest scientific and technical merit (generally the top half of applications under review) will be discussed and assigned an overall impact score.appeals of initial peer review will not be accepted for applications submitted in response to this foa.applications will be assigned on the basis of established phs referral guidelines to the appropriate nih institute or center. applications will compete for available funds with all other recommended applications submitted in response to this foa. following initial peer review, recommended applications will receive a second level of review by the appropriate national advisory council or board. the following will be considered in making funding decisions:3. anticipated announcement and award datesafter the peer review of the application is completed, the pd/pi will be able to access his or her summary statement (written critique) via the era commons. refer to part 1 for dates for peer review, advisory council review, and earliest start date.information regarding the disposition of applications is available in the nih grants policy statement.1. award noticesif the application is under consideration for funding, nih will request "just-in-time" information from the applicant as described in the nih grants policy statement.a formal notification in the form of a notice of award (noa) will be provided to the applicant organization for successful applications. the noa signed by the grants management officer is the authorizing document and will be sent via email to the recipient's business official.recipients must comply with any funding restrictions described in section iv.6. funding restrictions. selection of an application for award is not an authorization to begin performance. any costs incurred before receipt of the noa are at the recipient's risk. these costs may be reimbursed only to the extent considered allowable pre-award costs.any application awarded in response to this foa will be subject to terms and conditions found on the award conditions and information for nih grants website. this includes any recent legislation and policy applicable to awards that is highlighted on this website.individual awards are based on the application submitted to, and as approved by, the nih and are subject to the ic-specific terms and conditions identified in the noa.clinicaltrials.gov: if an award provides for one or more clinical trials. by law (title viii, section 801 of public law 110-85), the "responsible party" must register and submit results information for certain “applicable clinical trials” on the clinicaltrials.gov protocol registration and results system information website (https://register.clinicaltrials.gov). nih expects registration and results reporting of all trials whether required under the law or not. for more information, see https://grants.nih.gov/policy/clinical-trials/reporting/index.htminstitutional review board or independent ethics committee approval: recipient institutions must ensure that all protocols are reviewed by their irb or iec. to help ensure the safety of participants enrolled in nih-funded studies, the recipient must provide nih copies of documents related to all major changes in the status of ongoing protocols.data and safety monitoring requirements: the nih policy for data and safety monitoring requires oversight and monitoring of all nih-conducted or -supported human biomedical and behavioral intervention studies (clinical trials) to ensure the safety of participants and the validity and integrity of the data. further information concerning these requirements is found at http://grants.nih.gov/grants/policy/hs/data_safety.htm and in the application instructions (sf424 (r&r) and phs 398).investigational new drug or investigational device exemption requirements: consistent with federal regulations, clinical research projects involving the use of investigational therapeutics, vaccines, or other medical interventions (including licensed products and devices for a purpose other than that for which they were licensed) in humans under a research protocol must be performed under a food and drug administration (fda) investigational new drug (ind) or investigational device exemption (ide).2. administrative and national policy requirementsall nih grant and cooperative agreement awards include the nih grants policy statement as part of the noa. for these terms of award, see the nih grants policy statement part ii: terms and conditions of nih grant awards, subpart a: general and part ii: terms and conditions of nih grant awards, subpart b: terms and conditions for specific types of grants, recipients, and activities, including of note, but not limited to:if a recipient is successful and receives a notice of award, in accepting the award, the recipient agrees that any activities under the award are subject to all provisions currently in effect or implemented during the period of the award, other department regulations and policies in effect at the time of the award, and applicable statutory provisions.should the applicant organization successfully compete for an award, recipients of federal financial assistance (ffa) from hhs will be required to complete an hhs assurance of compliance form (hhs 690) in which the recipient agrees, as a term and condition of receiving the grant, to administer their programs in compliance with federal civil rights laws that prohibit discrimination on the basis of race, color, national origin, age, sex and disability, and agreeing to comply with federal conscience laws, where applicable. this includes ensuring that entities take meaningful steps to provide meaningful access to persons with limited english proficiency; and ensuring effective communication with persons with disabilities. where applicable, title xi and section 1557 prohibit discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation, and gender identity. the hhs office for civil rights provides guidance on complying with civil rights laws enforced by hhs. please see https://www.hhs.gov/civil-rights/for-providers/provider-obligations/index.html and https://www.hhs.gov/civil-rights/for-individuals/nondiscrimination/index.htmlhhs recognizes that research projects are often limited in scope for many reasons that are nondiscriminatory, such as the principal investigator’s scientific interest, funding limitations, recruitment requirements, and other considerations. thus, criteria in research protocols that target or exclude certain populations are warranted where nondiscriminatory justifications establish that such criteria are appropriate with respect to the health or safety of the subjects, the scientific study design, or the purpose of the research. for additional guidance regarding how the provisions apply to nih grant programs, please contact the scientific/research contact that is identified in section vii under agency contacts of this foa.please contact the hhs office for civil rights for more information about obligations and prohibitions under federal civil rights laws at https://www.hhs.gov/ocr/about-us/contact-us/index.html or call 1-800-368-1019 or tdd 1-800-537-7697.in accordance with the statutory provisions contained in section 872 of the duncan hunter national defense authorization act of fiscal year 2009 (public law 110-417), nih awards will be subject to the federal awardee performance and integrity information system (fapiis) requirements. fapiis requires federal award making officials to review and consider information about an applicant in the designated integrity and performance system (currently fapiis) prior to making an award. an applicant, at its option, may review information in the designated integrity and performance systems accessible through fapiis and comment on any information about itself that a federal agency previously entered and is currently in fapiis. the federal awarding agency will consider any comments by the applicant, in addition to other information in fapiis, in making a judgement about the applicant’s integrity, business ethics, and record of performance under federal awards when completing the review of risk posed by applicants as described in 45 cfr part 75.205 and 2 cfr part 200.206 “federal awarding agency review of risk posed by applicants.” this provision will apply to all nih grants and cooperative agreements except fellowships.”the following special terms of award are in addition to, and not in lieu of, otherwise applicable u.s. office of management and budget (omb) administrative guidelines, u.s. department of health and human services (dhhs) grant administration regulations at 45 cfr part 75, and other hhs, phs, and nih grant administration policies.the administrative and funding instrument used for this program will be the cooperative agreement, an “assistance” mechanism (rather than an “acquisition” mechanism), in which substantial nih programmatic involvement with the recipients is anticipated during the performance of the activities. under the cooperative agreement, the nih purpose is to support and stimulate the recipients’ activities by involvement in and otherwise working jointly with the award recipients in a partnership role; it is not to assume direction, prime responsibility, or a dominant role in the activities. consistent with this concept, the dominant role and prime responsibility reside with the recipients for the project as a whole, although specific tasks and activities may be shared among the recipients and nih as defined below.the pd(s)/pi(s) will have the primary responsibility for:nih staff have substantial programmatic involvement that is above and beyond the normal stewardship role in awards, as described below:section_8.5.2.areas of joint responsibility include:dispute resolution:any disagreements that may arise in scientific or programmatic matters (within the scope of the award) between award recipients and nih may be brought to dispute resolution. a dispute resolution panel will be convened. it will have three members: a designee of the steering committee chosen without nih staff voting, one nih designee, and a third designee with expertise in the relevant area who is chosen by the other two; in the case of individual disagreement, the first member may be chosen by the individual awardee. this special dispute resolution procedure does not alter the recipient’s right to appeal an adverse action that is otherwise appealable in accordance with phs regulation 42 cfr part 50, subpart d and dhhs regulation 45 cfr part 16.3. data management and sharingnote: the nih policy for data management and sharing is effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023.consistent with the nih policy for data management and sharing, when data management and sharing is applicable to the award, recipients will be required to adhere to the data management and sharing requirements as outlined in the nih grants policy statement. upon the approval of a data management and sharing plan, it is required for recipients to implement the plan as described.4. reportingwhen multiple years are involved, recipients will be required to submit the research performance progress report (rppr) annually and financial statements as required in the nih grants policy statement.a final rppr, invention statement, and the expenditure data portion of the federal financial report are required for closeout of an award, as described in the nih grants policy statement. nih foas outline intended research goals and objectives. post award, nih will review and measure performance based on the details and outcomes that are shared within the rppr, as described at 45 cfr part 75.301 and 2 cfr part 200.301.the federal funding accountability and transparency act of 2006 (transparency act), includes a requirement for recipients of federal grants to report information about first-tier subawards and executive compensation under federal assistance awards issued in fy2011 or later. all recipients of applicable nih grants and cooperative agreements are required to report to the federal subaward reporting system (fsrs) available at www.fsrs.gov on all subawards over the threshold. see the nih grants policy statement for additional information on this reporting requirement.in accordance with the regulatory requirements provided at 45 cfr 75.113 and 2 cfr part 200.113 and appendix xii to 45 cfr part 75 and 2 cfr part 200, recipients that have currently active federal grants, cooperative agreements, and procurement contracts from all federal awarding agencies with a cumulative total value greater than $10,000,000 for any period of time during the period of performance of a federal award, must report and maintain the currency of information reported in the system for award management (sam) about civil, criminal, and administrative proceedings in connection with the award or performance of a federal award that reached final disposition within the most recent five-year period. the recipient must also make semiannual disclosures regarding such proceedings. proceedings information will be made publicly available in the designated integrity and performance system (currently fapiis). this is a statutory requirement under section 872 of public law 110-417, as amended (41 u.s.c. 2313). as required by section 3010 of public law 111-212, all information posted in the designated integrity and performance system on or after april 15, 2011, except past performance reviews required for federal procurement contracts, will be publicly available. full reporting requirements and procedures are found in appendix xii to 45 cfr part 75 and 2 cfr part 200 – award term and condition for recipient integrity and performance matters.we encourage inquiries concerning this funding opportunity and welcome the opportunity to answer questions from potential applicants.era service desk (questions regarding assist, era commons, application errors and warnings, documenting system problems that threaten submission by the due date, and post-submission issues)finding help online: https://www.era.nih.gov/need-help (preferred method of contact) telephone: 301-402-7469 or 866-504-9552 (toll free)general grants information (questions regarding application instructions, application processes, and nih grant resources) email: grantsinfo@nih.gov (preferred method of contact) telephone: 301-637-3015grants.gov customer support (questions regarding grants.gov registration and workspace) contact center telephone: 800-518-4726 email: support@grants.govinna belfer, m.d., ph.d.national center for complementary and integrative health (nccih) telephone: 301-435-1573 email: inna.belfer@nih.govjessica mcklveen, ph.d.national center for complementary and integrative health (nccih)telephone: 301-594-8018email: jessica.mcklveen@nih.govdebbie chen national center for complementary and integrative health (nccih) phone: 301-594-3788 email: debbie.chen@nih.govrecently issued trans-nih policy notices may affect your application submission. a full list of policy notices published by nih is provided in the nih guide for grants and contracts. all awards are subject to the terms and conditions, cost principles, and other considerations described in the nih grants policy statement.awards are made under the authorization of sections 301 and 405 of the public health service act as amended (42 usc 241 and 284) and under federal regulations 42 cfr part 52 and 45 cfr part 75 and 2 cfr part 200.weekly toc for this announcement nih funding opportunities and noticesnote: for help accessing pdf, rtf, ms word, excel, powerpoint, audio or video files, see help downloading files.