BRAIN Initiative: Data Archives for the BRAIN Initiative (R24 Clinical Trial Optional)
national institutes of health (nih)national institute of mental health (nimh) national eye institute (nei) national institute on aging (nia) national institute on alcohol abuse and alcoholism (niaaa) national institute of biomedical imaging and bioengineering (nibib) eunice kennedy shriver national institute of child health and human development (nichd) national institute on deafness and other communication disorders (nidcd) national institute on drug abuse (nida) national institute of neurological disorders and stroke (ninds) national center for complementary and integrative health (nccih)national eye institute (nei)national institute on aging (nia)national institute on alcohol abuse and alcoholism (niaaa)national institute of biomedical imaging and bioengineering (nibib)eunice kennedy shriver national institute of child health and human development (nichd)national institute on deafness and other communication disorders (nidcd)national institute on drug abuse (nida)national institute of neurological disorders and stroke (ninds)national center for complementary and integrative health (nccih)r24 resource-related research projectsreissue of rfa-mh-19-145 - brain initiative: data archives for the brain initiative (r24 clinical trial optional)not-od-23-012 reminder: forms-h grant application forms and instructions must be used for due dates on or after january 25, 2023 - new grant application instructions now available not-od-22-190 - adjustments to nih and ahrq grant application due dates between september 22 and september 30, 2022 october 28, 2021 - reminder: forms-g grant application forms & instructions must be used for due dates on or after january 25, 2022 - new grant application instructions now available. see notice not-od-22-018.september 13, 2021 - updates to the non-discrimination legal requirements for nih recipients. see notice not-od-21-181. august 5, 2021 - new nih "forms-g" grant application forms and instructions coming for due dates on or after january 25, 2022. see notice not-od-21-169.august 5, 2021 - update: notification of upcoming change in federal-wide unique entity identifier requirements. see notice not-od-21-170april 20, 2021 - expanding requirement for era commons ids to all senior/key personnel. see notice not-od-21-109 august 28, 2020 - notice of correction to eligibility in nih funding opportunity announcements. see notice not-od-20-171.nonesee section iii. 3. additional information on eligibility.this funding opportunity announcement (foa) solicits applications to develop web-accessible data archives to capture, store, and curate data related to brain initiative activities. the data archives teams will work with the research community to incorporate tools that allow users to analyze and visualize the data, but the creation of such tools is not part of this foa. the data archives will use appropriate standards to describe the data, but the creation of such standards is not part of this foa. a goal of this program is to advance research by creating a community resource data archive with appropriate standards and summary information that is broadly available and accessible to the research community for furthering research.30 days prior to the application due datesjuly 14, 2021, july 14, 2022, and july 14, 2023 by 5:00 pm local time of applicant organization. all types of non-aids applications allowed for this funding opportunity announcement are due on these dates. no late applications will be accepted for this funding opportunity announcement.all applications are due by 5:00 pm local time of applicant organization. all types of non-aids applications allowed for this funding opportunity announcement are due on the listed date(s). applicants are encouraged to apply early to allow adequate time to make any corrections to errors found in the application during the submission process by the due date.all applications are due by 5:00 pm local time of applicant organization. all types of non-aids applications allowed for this funding opportunity announcement are due on the listed date(s).applicants are encouraged to apply early to allow adequate time to make any corrections to errors found in the application during the submission process by the due date.not applicablenovember 2021, november 2022, and november 2023january 2022, january 2023, and january 2024april 2022, april 2023, and april 2024not applicableit is critical that applicants follow the instructions in the research (r) instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide,except where instructed to do otherwise (in this foa or in a notice from nih guide for grants and contracts ).conformance to all requirements (both in the application guide and the foa) is required and strictly enforced. applicants must read and follow all application instructions in the application guide as well as any program-specific instructions noted in section iv. when the program-specific instructions deviate from those in the application guide, follow the program-specific instructions.applications that do not comply with these instructions may be delayed or not accepted for review.there are several options available to submit your application through grants.gov to nih and department of health and human services partners. you must use one of these submission options to access the application forms for this opportunity.backgroundthe brain initiative: the brain research through advancing innovative neurotechnologies (brain) initiative® is aimed at revolutionizing our understanding of the human brain. by accelerating the development and application of innovative technologies, researchers will be able to produce a new dynamic picture of the brain that, for the first time, will show how individual cells and complex neural circuits interact in both time and space. it is expected that the application of these new tools and technologies will ultimately lead to new ways to treat and prevent brain disorders. nih is one of several federal agencies involved in the brain initiative. planning for the nih component of the brain initiative is guided by the long-term scientific plan, "brain 2025: a scientific vision," which details seven high-priority research areas and calls for a sustained federal commitment of $4.5 billion over 12 years. this and other foas issued as part of the brain initiative are based on careful consideration by the nih of the recommendations of the brain 2025 report, and input from the nih brain multi-council working group. videocasts of the nih brain multi-council working group are available at http://www.braininitiative.nih.gov/about/mcwg.htm. to enable rapid progress in development of new technologies as well as in theory and data analysis, the brain initiative encourages collaborations between neurobiologists and scientists from statistics, physics, mathematics, engineering, and computer and information sciences; and nih welcomes applications from investigators in these disciplines. nih encourages brain initiative applications from investigators that are underrepresented in the biomedical, behavioral, or clinical research workforce (see data at http://www.nsf.gov/statistics/showpub.cfm?topid=2&subid=27 and the most recent report on women, minorities, and persons with disabilities in science and engineering). such individuals include those from underrepresented racial and ethnic groups, those with disabilities, and those from disadvantaged backgrounds. nih also encourages businesses to participate in the brain initiative. it is possible for companies to submit applications directly to brain initiative program announcements or to collaborate with academic researchers in joint submissions. small businesses should consider applying to one of the brain initiative small business foas. in addition to the national brain initiative, the nih continues to have a substantial annual investment in neuroscience research. the institutes and centers contributing to the nih brain initiative support those research efforts through investigator-initiated applications as well as through specific foas. potential applicants to this foa are strongly encouraged to contact scientific/review staff if they have any questions about the best foa for their research. the brain initiative will require a high level of coordination and sharing between investigators. it is expected that brain initiative awardees will cooperate and coordinate their activities after awards are made by participating in program director/principal investigator (pd/pi) meetings and in other activities.the data sharing expectations for brain initiative awards can be found at not-mh-19-010. this funding opportunity announcement (foa) is related to the recommendations in section iii.5 of the brain 2025 report. specifically, this foa solicits applications that will address the recommendations on “identifying fundamental principles”.research objectivethe purpose of this foa is to provide support for the creation and management of more than one data archive to hold data related to the brain initiative. these archives are part of the informatics infrastructure for the brain initiative. the other components of that infrastructure include developing data standards that are needed to describe the new experiments that are being created by or used in the brain initiative (rfa-mh-17-256 , rfa-mh-19-146, and rfa-mh-20-128), and developing software to visualize and analyze the data (rfa-mh-17-257 and rfa-mh-19-147). each of these components is aimed at building an infrastructure that is used by a particular sub-domain of brain initiative related experiments rather than building a single all-encompassing informatics infrastructure. building the infrastructure one experimental area at a time will ensure that the infrastructure is immediately useful to the research community. as our understanding of the brain improves, we plan to create linkages between these various sub-domain specific informatics programs. while current efforts are limited in scope, investigators of the informatics programs should factor in plans for the eventual linkage of the various sub-domain specific informatics programs. the data archives supported under this foa are expected to use relevant standards that describe brain initiative experiments, and to be integrated with relevant software tools for visualization and analysis of archived data. such standards and tools may be developed under brain initiative informatics awards or may already exist. awardees under all the informatics programs are expected to work together. the awardees should budget for hackathons and other collaborative efforts that will be necessary to integrate the products produced by all awardees. collaborations with neuro-informatics efforts outside of the brain initiative are both welcome and encouraged. this foa supports the development of data infrastructures that will house the data from multiple experimental groups. the data that will be deposited in a particular archive need not be restricted to data sets funded by brain initiative awards. applicants are strongly encouraged to extend existing data archives, if possible. nih expects to provide ongoing support to successful archives once the initial award period is complete. a data archive will develop a data submission pipeline ensuring appropriate quality control standards for laboratories who are trying to upload data. for example, if an experimental standard defines an allowable range of values for a particular data element, the submission pipeline should make sure that uploaded data respect the current data standard. ideally, the data archive will create both a submission pipeline and a related validation tool to allow researchers to check the quality of their data even if they are not trying to upload data. such validation tools should help the research community improve the rigor and reproducibility of their data. data submission pipelines that originate with the data collection instrument in the depositor’s laboratory and require minimal manual intervention would be ideal but are not required. a data archive will work closely with brain initiative awardees and others to collect and archive relevant datasets. each data archive should plan for a help desk to work with those who are trying to upload data. each data archive must develop plans to make the data readily available to the broad research community and to citizen scientists, as appropriate. depending on data type, data submission agreements and data access agreements may be necessary. in addition to uploading raw data, processed data may also be useful to the research community. each data archive should consider storing and curating the appropriate data (either raw or processed) and make it available to the community. a data archive may propose evaluating deposited data and scoring them to allow the research community to have some guidance about data quality. each data archive should plan to assign persistent identifiers to deposited data and to processed data to allow the research community an easy way to cite the data sets that are being used. a data archive should allow researchers to have a space where they can share data privately to facilitate collaboration prior to publication. such private enclaves must only last for a defined period of time before that data set is shared with the rest of the research community. a data archive may help users deposit data into other sustainable databases, such as those supported by the national center for biotechnology information, but this is not a requirement. there may be cases where data are stored in more than one data archive. in those cases, a data archive funded under this foa will ensure that the user community can find all relevant data using appropriate persistent identifiers, linkages, or database federation strategies no matter where the data are actually stored. furthermore, each data archive will provide an interface that is accessible to anyone with a web browser. a data archive will make appropriate query tools and summary data easily available to allow the research community to check whether data of interest are held in the archive. the user interface should make the maximum amount of information available to the research community while considering user friendliness and ease of interpretation. the website is expected to have a broad user base that includes both naïve and experienced users. an interface that will accommodate both types of users is expected. in many cases, users will want to analyze and/or use visualization tools to interact with the data without downloading any data. those interactions should be anticipated by the data archive. expensive computations could result from some analysis activities, and the data archive should explain plans to deal with such eventualities. a data archive is strongly encouraged to use cloud storage and computing capabilities to enable the research community to analyze data without downloading it. a data archive should, but it is not required to, allow users to bring their own analysis tools to the data. each data archive will be expected to have staff who are knowledgeable about informatics and the experimental data being collected. the informaticists will be responsible for coordination with other relevant informatics efforts. in particular, a data archive will be expected to identify and federate the archive with other data repositories and knowledge bases, as appropriate. this data archive integration should create ways for users to query all relevant data repositories for relevant information. funded data archives will be members of a larger brain initiative data network that will work across brain initiative activities to promote integration of a variety of data types. in addition, the data archive will interact, as appropriate, with informatics activities outside of the brain initiative such as the work of the international neuroinformatics coordination facility. when possible, a data archive is expected to use existing infrastructures and standards. these could include persistent identifiers such as digital object identifiers. the awardee will have the responsibility for operating an infrastructure that is useful to the community. while some research efforts may be proposed to identify an optimal solution, the focus of the application should be on delivering the infrastructure. sub-domains that might be ready for the development of standards that describe the experiments being conducted include: this list covers awards made under existing brain initiative focus areas. the list is not exhaustive and other sub-domains of similar size and complexity related to the brain initiative are welcome. the brain initiative only intends to fund one data archive in a particular sub-domain. the list of currently funded data archives is available at https://projectreporter.nih.gov/reporter.cfm (enter rfa-mh-17-255, rfa-mh-19-145, and this foa, rfa-mh-20-600, in the foa box). except for the renewal applications, other applications will not be reviewed. potential applicants should contact the science/technical staff contact should there be questions concerning overlap between a potential application and an existing award.see section viii. other information for award authorities and regulations.grant: a support mechanism providing money, property, or both to an eligible entity to carry out an approved project or activity.the oer glossary and the sf424 (r&r) application guide provide details on these application types. only those application types listed here are allowed for this foa.need help determining whether you are doing a clinical trial?issuing ic and partner components intend to commit an estimated total of $4 million to fund 3-4 awards at each receipt date. it is expected that costs will be substantially higher after the first year of these awards.the scope of the proposed project should determine the project period. the maximum project period is 5 years.nih grants policies as described in the nih grants policy statement will apply to the applications submitted and awards made from this foa.higher education institutionsthe following types of higher education institutions are always encouraged to apply for nih support as public or private institutions of higher education:nonprofits other than institutions of higher educationfor-profit organizationslocal governmentsfederal governmentsotherapplications involving the nih intramural research programthe requests by nih intramural scientists will be limited to the incremental costs required for participation. as such, these requests will not include any salary and related fringe benefits for career, career conditional or other federal employees (civilian or uniformed service) with permanent appointments under existing position ceilings or any costs related to administrative or facilities support (equivalent to facilities and administrative or f&a costs). these costs may include salary for staff to be specifically hired under a temporary appointment for the project, consultant costs, equipment, supplies, travel, and other items typically listed under other expenses. applicants should indicate the number of person-months devoted to the project, even if no funds are requested for salary and fringe benefits.if selected, appropriate funding will be provided by the nih intramural program. nih intramural scientists will participate in this program as pds/pis in accord with the terms and conditions provided in this foa. intellectual property will be managed in accord with established policy of the nih in compliance with executive order 10096, as amended, 45 cfr part 7; patent rights for inventions developed in nih facilities are nih property unless nih waives its rights.should an extramural application include the collaboration with an intramural scientist, no funds for the support of the intramural scientist may be requested in the application. the intramural scientist may submit a separate request for intramural funding as described above.non-domestic (non-u.s.) entities (foreign institutions) are eligible to apply.non-domestic (non-u.s.) components of u.s. organizations are eligible to apply.foreign components, as defined in the nih grants policy statement, are allowed.applicant organizationsapplicant organizations must complete and maintain the following registrations as described in the sf 424 (r&r) application guide to be eligible to apply for or receive an award. all registrations must be completed prior to the application being submitted. registration can take 6 weeks or more, so applicants should begin the registration process as soon as possible. the nih policy on late submission of grant applications states that failure to complete registrations in advance of a due date is not a valid reason for a late submission.program directors/principal investigators (pd(s)/pi(s))all pd(s)/pi(s) must have an era commons account. pd(s)/pi(s) should work with their organizational officials to either create a new account or to affiliate their existing account with the applicant organization in era commons. if the pd/pi is also the organizational signing official, they must have two distinct era commons accounts, one for each role. obtaining an era commons account can take up to 2 weeks.any individual(s) with the skills, knowledge, and resources necessary to carry out the proposed research as the program director(s)/principal investigator(s) (pd(s)/pi(s)) is invited to work with his/her organization to develop an application for support. individuals from underrepresented racial and ethnic groups as well as individuals with disabilities are always encouraged to apply for nih support.for institutions/organizations proposing multiple pds/pis, visit the multiple program director/principal investigator policy and submission details in the senior/key person profile (expanded) component of the sf424 (r&r) application guide.this foa does not require cost sharing as defined in the nih grants policy statement.applicant organizations may submit more than one application, provided that each application is scientifically distinct.the nih will not accept duplicate or highly overlapping applications under review at the same time. this means that the nih will not accept:the application forms package specific to this opportunity must be accessed through assist, grants.gov workspace or an institutional system-to-system solution. links to apply using assist or grants.gov workspace are available in part 1 of this foa. see your administrative office for instructions if you plan to use an institutional system-to-system solution.letter of intentletter of intentalthough a letter of intent is not required, is not binding, and does not enter into the review of a subsequent application, the information that it contains allows ic staff to estimate the potential review workload and plan the review.by the date listed in part 1. overview information, prospective applicants are asked to submit a letter of intent that includes the following information:the letter of intent should be sent to:email: nimhpeerreview@mail.nih.govall page limitations described in the sf424 application guide and the table of page limits must be followed.note: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023, the data management and sharing (dms) plan will be attached in the other plan(s) attachment in forms-h and subsequent application forms packages. for due dates on or before january 24, 2023, the data sharing plan and genomic data sharing plan gds) will continue to be attached in the resource sharing plan attachment in forms-g application forms packages.the following section supplements the instructions found in the sf424 (r&r) application guide and should be used for preparing an application to this foa.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.other plan(s):note: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023, the data management and sharing plan will be attached in the other plan(s) attachment in forms-h and subsequent application forms packages. for due dates on or before january 24, 2023, the data sharing plan and genomic data sharing plan gds) will continue to be attached in the resource sharing plan attachment in forms-g application forms packages.all applicants planning research (funded or conducted in whole or in part by nih) that results in the generation of scientific data are required to comply with the instructions for the data management and sharing plan. all applications, regardless of the amount of direct costs requested for any one year, must address a data management and sharing plan.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed, with the following additional instructions:research strategy: applicants must include the following sub-sections as part of the research strategy section. standards and identifiers: applicants must specifically discuss existing standards that they plan to use as well as describe how the research community can access those standards. if any persistent identifiers are going to be used in the data archive, those identifiers must be described in this section. applicants may plan to rely on standards that are going to be developed under brain initiative awards. in that situation, applicants must explicitly state the standards that will be needed by the data archive. data storage: a summary of existing data in the archive should be presented, if applicable. applicants must estimate the size of the data deposited in the archive on one year after a grant award is made and estimate the annual growth of the data from that point. the storage strategy for a data archive must be described in this section. the applicant should also describe whether they are planning on storing raw data, processed data, or both in this section. data accessibility: if a data archive plans to use data submission agreements or data access agreements, the justification for that decision should be in this section of the application. any plans for the staffing and management of a data access committee should also be discussed in this section. in general, the brain initiative wants to make data as broadly available as possible. any limits to making the data broadly available to the research community must be justified in this section. any plans to federate queries among more than one data archive should be placed in this section. if it is anticipated that data about a particular research subject or sample will be held in more than one data repository, plans to ensure that the data in those repositories are linked must be presented in this section. analysis and visualization tools: plans to provide the resources and interfaces for data analysis and/or data visualization tools should be discussed in this section of the application. the compute costs for these analyses should be estimated and a description of how those compute costs will be provided belongs in this section. any plans to allow users to bring their own analysis tools to the data archive should be presented here. timeline: applicants must include a timeline for the creation of the data archive that has meaningful milestones.resource sharing plan: individuals are required to comply with the instructions for the resource sharing plans as provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.the following modifications also apply:only limited appendix materials are allowed.follow all instructions for the appendix as described in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.when involving human subjects research, clinical research, and/or nih-defined clinical trials (and when applicable, clinical trials research experience) follow all instructions for the phs human subjects and clinical trials information form in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, with the following additional instructions:if you answered “yes” to the question “are human subjects involved?” on the r&r other project information form, you must include at least one human subjects study record using the study record: phs human subjects and clinical trials information form or delayed onset study record.study record: phs human subjects and clinical trials informationall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.note: delayed onset does not apply to a study that can be described but will not start immediately (i.e., delayed start).all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.foreign institutionsforeign (non-u.s.) institutions must follow policies described in the nih grants policy statement, and procedures for foreign institutions described throughout the sf424 (r&r) application guide.see part 1. section iii.1 for information regarding the requirement for obtaining a unique entity identifier and for completing and maintaining active registrations in system for award management (sam), nato commercial and government entity (ncage) code (if applicable), era commons, and grants.govpart i. overview information contains information about key dates and times. applicants are encouraged to submit applications before the due date to ensure they have time to make any application corrections that might be necessary for successful submission. when a submission date falls on a weekend or federal holiday, the application deadline is automatically extended to the next business day.organizations must submit applications to grants.gov (the online portal to find and apply for grants across all federal agencies). applicants must then complete the submission process by tracking the status of the application in the era commons, nih’s electronic system for grants administration. nih and grants.gov systems check the application against many of the application instructions upon submission. errors must be corrected and a changed/corrected application must be submitted to grants.gov on or before the application due date and time. if a changed/corrected application is submitted after the deadline, the application will be considered late. applications that miss the due date and time are subjected to the nih policy on late application submission.applicants are responsible for viewing their application before the due date in the era commons to ensure accurate and successful submission.information on the submission process and a definition of on-time submission are provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.this initiative is not subject to intergovernmental review.all nih awards are subject to the terms and conditions, cost principles, and other considerations described in the nih grants policy statement.pre-award costs are allowable only as described in the nih grants policy statement.applications must be submitted electronically following the instructions described in the sf424 (r&r) application guide. paper applications will not be accepted.applicants must complete all required registrations before the application due date. section iii. eligibility information contains information about registration.for assistance with your electronic application or for more information on the electronic submission process, visit how to apply – application guide. if you encounter a system issue beyond your control that threatens your ability to complete the submission process on-time, you must follow the dealing with system issues guidance. for assistance with application submission, contact the application submission contacts in section vii.important reminders:all pd(s)/pi(s) must include their era commons id in the credential field of the senior/key person profile component of the sf424(r&r) application package. failure to register in the commons and to include a valid pd/pi commons id in the credential field will prevent the successful submission of an electronic application to nih. see section iii of this foa for information on registration requirements.the applicant organization must ensure that the duns number it provides on the application is the same number used in the organization’s profile in the era commons and for the system for award management. additional information may be found in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.see more tips for avoiding common errors.upon receipt, applications will be evaluated for completeness and compliance with application instructions by the center for scientific review and responsiveness by components of participating organizations, nih. applications that are incomplete, non-compliant and/or nonresponsive will not be reviewed.applications involving the nih intramural research program the requests by nih intramural scientists will be limited to the incremental costs required for participation. as such, these requests will not include any salary and related fringe benefits for career, career conditional or other federal employees (civilian or uniformed service) with permanent appointments under existing position ceilings or any costs related to administrative or facilities support (equivalent to facilities and administrative or f&a costs). these costs may include salary for staff to be specifically hired under a temporary appointment for the project, consultant costs, equipment, supplies, travel, and other items typically listed under other expenses. applicants should indicate the number of person-months devoted to the project, even if no funds are requested for salary and fringe benefits. if selected, appropriate funding will be provided by the nih intramural program. nih intramural scientists will participate in this program as pds/pis in accord with the terms and conditions provided in this foa. intellectual property will be managed in accord with established policy of the nih in compliance with executive order 10096, as amended, 45 cfr part 7; patent rights for inventions developed in nih facilities are nih property unless nih waives its right. should an extramural application include the collaboration with an intramural scientist, no funds for the support of the intramural scientist may be requested in the application. the intramural scientist may submit a separate request for intramural funding as described above.use of common data elements in nih-funded research many nih ics encourage the use of common data elements (cdes) in basic, clinical, and applied research, patient registries, and other human subject research to facilitate broader and more effective use of data and advance research across studies. cdes are data elements that have been identified and defined for use in multiple data sets across different studies. use of cdes can facilitate data sharing and standardization to improve data quality and enable data integration from multiple studies and sources, including electronic health records. nih ics have identified cdes for many clinical domains (e.g., neurological disease), types of studies (e.g. genome-wide association studies (gwas)), types of outcomes (e.g., patient-reported outcomes), and patient registries (e.g., the global rare diseases patient registry and data repository). nih has established a “common data element (cde) resource portal" (http://cde.nih.gov/) to assist investigators in identifying nih-supported cdes when developing protocols, case report forms, and other instruments for data collection. the portal provides guidance about and access to nih-supported cde initiatives and other tools and resources for the appropriate use of cdes and data standards in nih-funded research. investigators are encouraged to consult the portal and describe in their applications any use they will make of nih-supported cdes in their projects.add any other submission requirements and information, include heading (use heading 4 and heading 4 indent styles) and description. do not include information about the content and form of the application, which should instead be placed above in section iv.2. content and form, for common fund/roadmap, see the document “common fund – intramural” foa text insertion document on the templates page. for foas encouraging data sharing, see the document “common data elements for data sharing” foa text insertion document on the templates page.applicants are required to follow the instructions for post-submission materials, as described in the policy. any instructions provided here are in addition to the instructions in the policy.note: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023, the data sharing plan and genomic data sharing plan (gds) as part of the resource sharing plan will not be evaluated at time of review.only the review criteria described below will be considered in the review process. applications submitted to the nih in support of the nih mission are evaluated for scientific and technical merit through the nih peer review system.in addition, for applications involving clinical trialsa proposed clinical trial application may include study design, methods, and intervention that are not by themselves innovative but address important questions or unmet needs. additionally, the results of the clinical trial may indicate that further clinical development of the intervention is unwarranted or lead to new avenues of scientific investigation.reviewers will provide an overall impact score to reflect their assessment of the likelihood for the project to exert a sustained, powerful influence on the research field(s) involved, in consideration of the following review criteria and additional review criteria (as applicable for the project proposed).reviewers will consider each of the review criteria below in the determination of scientific merit, and give a separate score for each. an application does not need to be strong in all categories to be judged likely to have major scientific impact. for example, a project that by its nature is not innovative may be essential to advance a field.significancedoes the proposed center address the needs of the research resource that it will serve? is the scope of activities proposed for the center appropriate to meet those needs? will successful completion of the aims bring unique advantages or capabilities to the research resource?in addition, for applications involving clinical trialsare the scientific rationale and need for a clinical trial to test the proposed hypothesis or intervention well supported by preliminary data, clinical and/or preclinical studies, or information in the literature or knowledge of biological mechanisms? for trials focusing on clinical or public health endpoints, is this clinical trial necessary for testing the safety, efficacy or effectiveness of an intervention that could lead to a change in clinical practice, community behaviors or health care policy? for trials focusing on mechanistic, behavioral, physiological, biochemical, or other biomedical endpoints, is this trial needed to advance scientific understanding?investigator(s)are the pd(s)/pi(s) and other personnel well suited to their roles in the center? do they have appropriate experience and training, and have they demonstrated experience and an ongoing record of accomplishments in managing the research? do the investigators demonstrate significant experience with coordinating collaborative research? if the center is multi-pd/pi, do the investigators have complementary and integrated expertise and skills; are their leadership approach, governance, plans for conflict resolution, and organizational structure appropriate for the center? does the applicant have experience overseeing selection and management of subawards, if needed?in addition, for applications involving clinical trials with regard to the proposed leadership for the project, do the pd/pi(s) and key personnel have the expertise, experience, and ability to organize, manage and implement the proposed clinical trial and meet milestones and timelines? do they have appropriate expertise in study coordination, data management and statistics? for a multicenter trial, is the organizational structure appropriate and does the application identify a core of potential center investigators and staffing for a coordinating center?innovationdoes the application propose novel organizational concepts, management strategies, or instrumentation in coordinating the research resource the center will serve? are the concepts, strategies, or instrumentation novel to one type of research program or applicable in a broad sense? is a refinement, improvement, or new application of organizational concepts, management strategies or instrumentation proposed? have innovative approaches to data storage, provision of data analysis/data visualization tools, or use of persistent identifiers been proposed?in addition, for applications involving clinical trialsdoes the design/research plan include innovative elements, as appropriate, that enhance its sensitivity, potential for information or potential to advance scientific knowledge or clinical practice?are the overall strategy, operational plan, and organizational structure well-reasoned and appropriate to accomplish the goals of the research resource the center will serve? will the investigators promote strategies to ensure a robust and unbiased scientific approach across the resource, as appropriate for the work proposed? are potential problems, alternative strategies, and benchmarks for success presented? if the resource is in the early stages of operation, does the proposed strategy adequately establish feasibility and manage the risks associated with the activities of the resource? are an appropriate plan for work-flow and a well-established timeline proposed? have the investigators presented adequate plans to ensure consideration of relevant biological variables, such as sex, for studies of vertebrate animals or human subjects? have appropriate standards been proposed for use in the data archive? are the data storage estimates reasonable and have appropriate strategies to store the data been proposed? will the data archive make summary information widely available? will it be easy to access all data in the data archive? are any limits to making the data broadly available justified? will it be possible to integrate data analysis and visualization tools into the data archive? is a plan provided for working closely with brain initiative awardees and others to collect and archive relevant datasets? is a data submission pipeline that ensures appropriate quality control standards in uploading data proposed?if the project involves human subjects and/or nih-defined clinical research, are the plans to address 1) the protection of human subjects from research risks, and 2) inclusion (or exclusion) of individuals on the basis of sex/gender, race, and ethnicity, as well as the inclusion or exclusion of individuals of all ages (including children and older adults), justified in terms of the scientific goals and research strategy proposed?in addition, for applications involving clinical trialsdoes the application adequately address the following, if applicable?study designis the study design justified and appropriate to address primary and secondary outcome variable(s)/endpoints that will be clear, informative and relevant to the hypothesis being tested? is the scientific rationale/premise of the study based on previously well-designed preclinical and/or clinical research? is the study design adequately powered to answer the research question(s), test the proposed hypothesis/hypotheses, and provide interpretable results? is the trial appropriately designed to conduct the research efficiently? are the study populations (size, gender, age, demographic group), proposed intervention arms/dose, and duration of the trial, appropriate and well justified?are potential ethical issues adequately addressed? is the process for obtaining informed consent or assent appropriate? is the eligible population available? are the plans for recruitment outreach, enrollment, retention, handling dropouts, missed visits, and losses to follow-up appropriate to ensure robust data collection? are the planned recruitment timelines feasible and is the plan to monitor accrual adequate? has the need for randomization (or not), masking (if appropriate), controls, and inclusion/exclusion criteria been addressed? are differences addressed, if applicable, in the intervention effect due to sex/gender and race/ethnicity?are the plans to standardize, assure quality of, and monitor adherence to, the trial protocol and data collection or distribution guidelines appropriate? is there a plan to obtain required study agent(s)? does the application propose to use existing available resources, as applicable?data management and statistical analysisare planned analyses and statistical approach appropriate for the proposed study design and methods? are the procedures for data management and quality control of data adequate at clinical site(s) or at center laboratories, as applicable? have the methods for standardization of procedures for data management to assess the effect of the intervention and quality control been addressed? is there a plan to complete data analysis within the proposed period of the award?environmentwill the institutional environment in which the center will operate contribute to the probability of success in facilitating the research projects it serves? are the institutional support, equipment and other physical resources available to the investigators adequate for the center proposed? will the center benefit from unique features of the institutional environment, infrastructure, or personnel? are resources available within the scientific environment to support electronic information handling?in addition, for applications involving clinical trialsif proposed, are the administrative, data coordinating, enrollment and laboratory/testing centers, appropriate for the trial proposed?does the application adequately address the capability and ability to conduct the trial at the proposed site(s) or centers? are the plans to add or drop enrollment centers, as needed, appropriate?if international site(s) is/are proposed, does the application adequately address the complexity of executing the clinical trial?if multi-sites/centers, is there evidence of the ability of the individual site or center to: (1) enroll the proposed numbers; (2) adhere to the protocol; (3) collect and transmit data in an accurate and timely fashion; and, (4) operate within the proposed organizational structure?as applicable for the project proposed, reviewers will evaluate the following additional items while determining scientific and technical merit, and in providing an overall impact score, but will not give separate scores for these items.milestones and timelinesare the proposed milestones and timeline described in sufficient detail and are they appropriate for the project? is the timeline reasonable? are the milestones feasible, well developed, and quantifiable?study timelinespecific to applications involving clinical trialsis the study timeline described in detail, taking into account start-up activities, the anticipated rate of enrollment, and planned follow-up assessment? is the projected timeline feasible and well justified? does the project incorporate efficiencies and utilize existing resources (e.g., ctsas, practice-based research networks, electronic medical records, administrative database, or patient registries) to increase the efficiency of participant enrollment and data collection, as appropriate?are potential challenges and corresponding solutions discussed (e.g., strategies that can be implemented in the event of enrollment shortfalls)?protections for human subjectsprotections for human subjectsfor research that involves human subjects but does not involve one of the categories of research that are exempt under 45 cfr part 46, the committee will evaluate the justification for involvement of human subjects and the proposed protections from research risk relating to their participation according to the following five review criteria: 1) risk to subjects, 2) adequacy of protection against risks, 3) potential benefits to the subjects and others, 4) importance of the knowledge to be gained, and 5) data and safety monitoring for clinical trials.for research that involves human subjects and meets the criteria for one or more of the categories of research that are exempt under 45 cfr part 46, the committee will evaluate: 1) the justification for the exemption, 2) human subjects involvement and characteristics, and 3) sources of materials. for additional information on review of the human subjects section, please refer to the guidelines for the review of human subjects.inclusion of women, minorities, and individuals across the lifespaninclusion of women, minorities, and individuals across the lifespanwhen the proposed project involves human subjects and/or nih-defined clinical research, the committee will evaluate the proposed plans for the inclusion (or exclusion) of individuals on the basis of sex/gender, race, and ethnicity, as well as the inclusion (or exclusion) of individuals of all ages (including children and older adults) to determine if it is justified in terms of the scientific goals and research strategy proposed. for additional information on review of the inclusion section, please refer to the guidelines for the review of inclusion in clinical research.vertebrate animalsvertebrate animalsthe committee will evaluate the involvement of live vertebrate animals as part of the scientific assessment according to the following criteria: (1) description of proposed procedures involving animals, including species, strains, ages, sex, and total number to be used; (2) justifications for the use of animals versus alternative models and for the appropriateness of the species proposed; (3) interventions to minimize discomfort, distress, pain and injury; and (4) justification for euthanasia method if not consistent with the avma guidelines for the euthanasia of animals. reviewers will assess the use of chimpanzees as they would any other application proposing the use of vertebrate animals. for additional information on review of the vertebrate animals section, please refer to the worksheet for review of the vertebrate animal section.biohazardsbiohazardsreviewers will assess whether materials or procedures proposed are potentially hazardous to research personnel and/or the environment, and if needed, determine whether adequate protection is proposed.resubmissionsresubmissionsfor resubmissions, the committee will evaluate the application as now presented, taking into consideration the responses to comments from the previous scientific review group and changes made to the project.renewalsrenewalsfor renewals, the committee will consider the progress made in the last funding period.revisionsrevisionsfor revisions, the committee will consider the appropriateness of the proposed expansion of the scope of the project. if the revision application relates to a specific line of investigation presented in the original application that was not recommended for approval by the committee, then the committee will consider whether the responses to comments from the previous scientific review group are adequate and whether substantial changes are clearly evident.note: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023, the data sharing plan and genomic data sharing plan (gds) as part of the resource sharing plan will not be evaluated at time of review.as applicable for the project proposed, reviewers will consider each of the following items, but will not give scores for these items, and should not consider them in providing an overall impact score.applications from foreign organizationsapplications from foreign organizationsreviewers will assess whether the project presents special opportunities for furthering research programs through the use of unusual talent, resources, populations, or environmental conditions that exist in other countries and either are not readily available in the united states or augment existing u.s. resources.select agent researchselect agent researchreviewers will assess the information provided in this section of the application, including 1) the select agent(s) to be used in the proposed research, 2) the registration status of all entities where select agent(s) will be used, 3) the procedures that will be used to monitor possession use and transfer of select agent(s), and 4) plans for appropriate biosafety, biocontainment, and security of the select agent(s).resource sharing plansresource sharing plansreviewers will comment on whether the following resource sharing plans, or the rationale for not sharing the following types of resources, are reasonable: (1) data sharing plan; (2) sharing model organisms; and (3) genomic data sharing plan (gds).authentication of key biological and/or chemical resources:authentication of key biological and/or chemical resources:for projects involving key biological and/or chemical resources, reviewers will comment on the brief plans proposed for identifying and ensuring the validity of those resources.budget and period of supportbudget and period of supportreviewers will consider whether the budget and the requested period of support are fully justified and reasonable in relation to the proposed research.applications will be evaluated for scientific and technical merit by (an) appropriate scientific review group(s) convened by nimh, in accordance with nih peer review policy and procedures, using the stated review criteria. assignment to a scientific review group will be shown in the era commons.as part of the scientific peer review, all applications will receive a written critique.applications may undergo a selection process in which only those applications deemed to have the highest scientific and technical merit (generally the top half of applications under review) will be discussed and assigned an overall impact score.information regarding the disposition of applications is available in the nih grants policy statement.a formal notification in the form of a notice of award (noa) will be provided to the applicant organization for successful applications. the noa signed by the grants management officer is the authorizing document and will be sent via email to the grantee’s business official.awardees must comply with any funding restrictions described in section iv.5. funding restrictions. selection of an application for award is not an authorization to begin performance. any costs incurred before receipt of the noa are at the recipient's risk. these costs may be reimbursed only to the extent considered allowable pre-award costs.any application awarded in response to this foa will be subject to terms and conditions found on the award conditions and information for nih grants website. this includes any recent legislation and policy applicable to awards that is highlighted on this website.individual awards are based on the application submitted to, and as approved by, the nih and are subject to the ic-specific terms and conditions identified in the noa.clinicaltrials.gov: if an award provides for one or more clinical trials. by law (title viii, section 801 of public law 110-85), the "responsible party" must register and submit results information for certain “applicable clinical trials” on the clinicaltrials.gov protocol registration and results system information website (https://register.clinicaltrials.gov). nih expects registration and results reporting of all trials whether required under the law or not. for more information, see https://grants.nih.gov/policy/clinical-trials/reporting/index.htminstitutional review board or independent ethics committee approval: grantee institutions must ensure that all protocols are reviewed by their irb or iec. to help ensure the safety of participants enrolled in nih-funded studies, the awardee must provide nih copies of documents related to all major changes in the status of ongoing protocols. data and safetymonitoring requirements: the nih policy for data and safety monitoring requires oversight and monitoring of all nih-conducted or -supported human biomedical and behavioral intervention studies (clinical trials) to ensure the safety of participants and the validity and integrity of the data. further information concerning these requirements is found at http://grants.nih.gov/grants/policy/hs/data_safety.htm and in the application instructions (sf424 (r&r) and phs 398).investigational new drug or investigational device exemption requirements: consistent with federal regulations, clinical research projects involving the use of investigational therapeutics, vaccines, or other medical interventions (including licensed products and devices for a purpose other than that for which they were licensed) in humans under a research protocol must be performed under a food and drug administration (fda) investigational new drug (ind) or investigational device exemption (ide).all nih grant and cooperative agreement awards include the nih grants policy statement as part of the noa. for these terms of award, see the nih grants policy statement part ii: terms and conditions of nih grant awards, subpart a: general and part ii: terms and conditions of nih grant awards, subpart b: terms and conditions for specific types of grants, grantees, and activities. more information is provided at award conditions and information for nih grants.recipients of federal financial assistance (ffa) from hhs must administer their programs in compliance with federal civil rights laws that prohibit discrimination on the basis of race, color, national origin, disability, age and, in some circumstances, religion, conscience, and sex. this includes ensuring programs are accessible to persons with limited english proficiency. the hhs office for civil rights provides guidance on complying with civil rights laws enforced by hhs. please see https://www.hhs.gov/civil-rights/for-providers/provider-obligations/index.html and http://www.hhs.gov/ocr/civilrights/understanding/section1557/index.html.hhs recognizes that research projects are often limited in scope for many reasons that are nondiscriminatory, such as the principal investigator’s scientific interest, funding limitations, recruitment requirements, and other considerations. thus, criteria in research protocols that target or exclude certain populations are warranted where nondiscriminatory justifications establish that such criteria are appropriate with respect to the health or safety of the subjects, the scientific study design, or the purpose of the research. for additional guidance regarding how the provisions apply to nih grant programs, please contact the scientific/research contact that is identified in section vii under agency contacts of this foa.please contact the hhs office for civil rights for more information about obligations and prohibitions under federal civil rights laws at https://www.hhs.gov/ocr/about-us/contact-us/index.html or call 1-800-368-1019 or tdd 1-800-537-7697.in accordance with the statutory provisions contained in section 872 of the duncan hunter national defense authorization act of fiscal year 2009 (public law 110-417), nih awards will be subject to the federal awardee performance and integrity information system (fapiis) requirements. fapiis requires federal award making officials to review and consider information about an applicant in the designated integrity and performance system (currently fapiis) prior to making an award. an applicant, at its option, may review information in the designated integrity and performance systems accessible through fapiis and comment on any information about itself that a federal agency previously entered and is currently in fapiis. the federal awarding agency will consider any comments by the applicant, in addition to other information in fapiis, in making a judgement about the applicant’s integrity, business ethics, and record of performance under federal awards when completing the review of risk posed by applicants as described in 45 cfr part 75.205 “federal awarding agency review of risk posed by applicants.” this provision will apply to all nih grants and cooperative agreements except fellowships.not applicabledata management and sharingnote: the nih policy for data management and sharing is effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023.consistent with the nih policy for data management and sharing, when data management and sharing is applicable to the award, recipients will be required to adhere to the data management and sharing requirements as outlined in the nih grants policy statement. upon the approval of a data management and sharing plan, it is required for recipients to implement the plan as described.a final rppr, invention statement, and the expenditure data portion of the federal financial report are required for closeout of an award, as described in the nih grants policy statement.the federal funding accountability and transparency act of 2006 (transparency act), includes a requirement for awardees of federal grants to report information about first-tier subawards and executive compensation under federal assistance awards issued in fy2011 or later. all awardees of applicable nih grants and cooperative agreements are required to report to the federal subaward reporting system (fsrs) available at www.fsrs.gov on all subawards over $25,000. see the nih grants policy statement for additional information on this reporting requirement.in accordance with the regulatory requirements provided at 45 cfr 75.113 and appendix xii to 45 cfr part 75, recipients that have currently active federal grants, cooperative agreements, and procurement contracts from all federal awarding agencies with a cumulative total value greater than $10,000,000 for any period of time during the period of performance of a federal award, must report and maintain the currency of information reported in the system for award management (sam) about civil, criminal, and administrative proceedings in connection with the award or performance of a federal award that reached final disposition within the most recent five-year period. the recipient must also make semiannual disclosures regarding such proceedings. proceedings information will be made publicly available in the designated integrity and performance system (currently fapiis). this is a statutory requirement under section 872 of public law 110-417, as amended (41 u.s.c. 2313). as required by section 3010 of public law 111-212, all information posted in the designated integrity and performance system on or after april 15, 2011, except past performance reviews required for federal procurement contracts, will be publicly available. full reporting requirements and procedures are found in appendix xii to 45 cfr part 75 – award term and conditions for recipient integrity and performance matters.we encourage inquiries concerning this funding opportunity and welcome the opportunity to answer questions from potential applicants.era service desk (questions regarding assist, era commons, application errors and warnings, documenting system problems that threaten submission by the due date, and post-submission issues)finding help online: http://grants.nih.gov/support/ (preferred method of contact) telephone: 301-402-7469 or 866-504-9552 (toll free)general grants information (questions regarding application instructions, application processes, and nih grant resources) email: grantsinfo@nih.gov (preferred method of contact) telephone: 301-637-3015grants.gov customer support (questions regarding grants.gov registration and workspace) contact center telephone: 800-518-4726 email: support@grants.govnick gaiano, ph. d. national institute of mental health (nimh) telephone: 301-827-3420 email: nimhpeerreview@mail.nih.govtamara kees national institute of mental health (nimh) telephone: 301-443-8811 email: tkees@mail.nih.govrecently issued trans-nih policy notices may affect your application submission. a full list of policy notices published by nih is provided in the nih guide for grants and contracts. all awards are subject to the terms and conditions, cost principles, and other considerations described in the nih grants policy statement.awards are made under the authorization of sections 301 and 405 of the public health service act as amended (42 usc 241 and 284) and under federal regulations 42 cfr part 52 and 45 cfr part 75. weekly toc for this announcement nih funding opportunities and noticesnote: for help accessing pdf, rtf, ms word, excel, powerpoint, audio or video files, see help downloading files.