Interventions Testing Program (ITP) Data Coordinating Center (U24 Clinical Trial Not Allowed)
https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/rfa-files/RFA-AG-24-003.html
national institutes of health (nih)national institute on aging (nia)u24 resource-related research projects – cooperative agreementsnot-od-22-195 - new nih "forms-h" grant application forms and instructions coming for due dates on or after january 25, 2023not-od-22-189 - implementation details for the nih data management and sharing policynot-od-22-198 - implementation changes for genomic data sharing plans included with applications due on or after january 25, 2023not-od-23-012 - reminder: forms-h grant application forms & instructions must be used for due dates on or after january 25, 2023 - new grant application instructions now availablesee section iii. 3. additional information on eligibility.this funding opportunity announcement (foa) invites applications utilizing a cooperative agreement (u24) mechanism to implement a data coordinating center (dcc) that will provide data storage, analysis tools, data analyses, and sharing of data generated by the interventions testing program (itp), and will develop a publicly accessible and interactive website.the itp tests intervention strategies that may delay aging in mammals under standardized conditions.the itp applies standard operating procedures (sops), protocols, and statistical procedures for conducting lifespan studies established over the course of several years. the data generated by the itp include, but are not limited to, results from compound pilot studies, lifespan data and analyses, geropathology assessments, and molecular phenotypes. the itp also collects tissues for ancillary studies that are available to the research community.the national institute on aging (nia) aims to achieve the following with the itp dcc:may 19, 2023all applications are due by 5:00 pm local time of applicant organization.applicants are encouraged to apply early to allow adequate time to make any corrections to errors found in the application during the submission process by the due date.no late applications will be accepted for this funding opportunity announcement.not applicableit is critical that applicants follow the instructions in the research (r) instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, except where instructed to do otherwise (in this foa or in a notice from nih guide for grants and contracts).conformance to all requirements (both in the application guide and the foa) is required and strictly enforced. applicants must read and follow all application instructions in the application guide as well as any program-specific instructions noted in section iv. when the program-specific instructions deviate from those in the application guide, follow the program-specific instructions.applications that do not comply with these instructions may be delayed or not accepted for review.there are several options available to submit your application through grants.gov to nih and department of health and human services partners. you must use one of these submission options to access the application forms for this opportunity.backgroundthe interventions testing program (itp) tests intervention strategies that may delay aging in mammals under standardized conditions.the interventions' effects on aging are measured by lifespan extension and/or delayed onset/severity of late life pathologies. compounds are proposed by the research community and the general public. pilot studies of compound stability, toxicity, and bioavailability are performed before new compounds are entered into the testing pipeline. testing by the itp follows two stages: stage i and stage ii. in stage i studies, a single dose of a candidate compound is administered chronically from an established adult age. in stage ii studies, multiple doses, different administration regimens, multiple compounds, or a combination thereof are tested based on promising data from stage i studies. lifespan is the primary outcome for the itp. secondary outcomes include, but are not limited to, geropathology assessment at set time-point(s) after initiating the intervention and pathology at death, selected animal vital records (e.g., weight) across the lifespan, and molecular phenotypes. the itp also collects tissues that are made available to the research community for ancillary studies through the interventions biospecimens repository (ibr). a data coordinating center (dcc) supports the itp by providing a hub for storing documentation and data, performing statistical analyses, and ensuring the public sharing of the data generated by the itp through a dedicated website. data from three different centers are combined and analyzed in the service of overall programmatic goals and in support of the individual testing locations.purpose and research objectivesthe purpose of this funding opportunity announcement (foa) is to solicit applications for a dcc for the itp that will coordinate historic and current data collection among the three centers of the itp and will house and maintain a data repository and an interactive public-access website. sops, protocols, and statistical procedures for lifespan studies developed by the itp will be acquired, stored, and made publicly available through the itp dcc. the itp dcc will curate and store data generated by the itp (e.g., compound pilot studies, lifespan, animal vitals, geropathology, and transcriptomics), provide tools and independent statistical analysis of lifespan data and develop and implement analytical tools (e.g., statistical, bioinformatics) for interactive data analysis and display through a public facing website. it will develop and maintain an analytical pipeline to monitor the quality, consistency, integrity, and robustness of the data generated from the itp, as well as cross-site reproducibility. the itp dcc will maintain an updated electronic inventory of samples in the interventions biospecimens repository that will also be replicated at each itp site and will be available on the nia website. the itp dcc will acquire, store and publicly share data (e.g., -omics data, images) generated by ancillary studies conducted on samples from the interventions biospecimens repository. it will adhere to reproducible and fully open-source standards. all itp data maintained by the dcc must be fully publicly accessible through an interactive portal upon publication.the goals of the itp dcc include the following:see section viii. other information for award authorities and regulations.cooperative agreement: a support mechanism used when there will be substantial federal scientific or programmatic involvement. substantial involvement means that, after award, nih scientific or program staff will assist, guide, coordinate, or participate in project activities. see section vi.2 for additional information about the substantial involvement for this foa.renewals of applications to rfa-ag-19-031the oer glossary and the sf424 (r&r) application guide provide details on these application types. only those application types listed here are allowed for this foa.not allowed: only accepting applications that do not propose clinical trials.need help determining whether you are doing a clinical trial?nia intends to commit $340,000 in fy 2024 to fund 1 award.direct costs may not exceed $200,000.the maximum project period is 5 years.nih grants policies as described in the nih grants policy statement will apply to the applications submitted and awards made from this foa.1. eligible applicantshigher education institutionsthe following types of higher education institutions are always encouraged to apply for nih support as public or private institutions of higher education:nonprofits other than institutions of higher educationfor-profit organizationslocal governmentsfederal governmentothernon-domestic (non-u.s.) entities (foreign institutions) are not eligible to apply.non-domestic (non-u.s.) components of u.s. organizations are not eligible to apply.foreign components, as defined in the nih grants policy statement, are not allowed.applicant organizationsapplicant organizations must complete and maintain the following registrations as described in the sf 424 (r&r) application guide to be eligible to apply for or receive an award. all registrations must be completed prior to the application being submitted. registration can take 6 weeks or more, so applicants should begin the registration process as soon as possible. the nih policy on late submission of grant applications states that failure to complete registrations in advance of a due date is not a valid reason for a late submission.program directors/principal investigators (pd(s)/pi(s))all pd(s)/pi(s) must have an era commons account. pd(s)/pi(s) should work with their organizational officials to either create a new account or to affiliate their existing account with the applicant organization in era commons. if the pd/pi is also the organizational signing official, they must have two distinct era commons accounts, one for each role. obtaining an era commons account can take up to 2 weeks.any individual(s) with the skills, knowledge, and resources necessary to carry out the proposed research as the program director(s)/principal investigator(s) (pd(s)/pi(s)) is invited to work with his/her organization to develop an application for support. individuals from diverse backgrounds, including underrepresented racial and ethnic groups, individuals with disabilities, and women are always encouraged to apply for nih support. see, reminder: notice of nih's encouragement of applications supporting individuals from underrepresented ethnic and racial groups as well as individuals with disabilities, not-od-22-019.for institutions/organizations proposing multiple pds/pis, visit the multiple program director/principal investigator policy and submission details in the senior/key person profile (expanded) component of the sf424 (r&r) application guide.2. cost sharingthis foa does not require cost sharing as defined in the nih grants policy statement.3. additional information on eligibilitynumber of applicationsapplicant organizations may submit more than one application, provided that each application is scientifically distinct.the nih will not accept duplicate or highly overlapping applications under review at the same time, per 2.3.7.4 submission of resubmission application. this means that the nih will not accept:1. requesting an application packagethe application forms package specific to this opportunity must be accessed through assist, grants.gov workspace or an institutional system-to-system solution. links to apply using assist or grants.gov workspace are available in part 1 of this foa. see your administrative office for instructions if you plan to use an institutional system-to-system solution.2. content and form of application submissionit is critical that applicants follow the instructions in the research (r) instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide except where instructed in this funding opportunity announcement to do otherwise. conformance to the requirements in the application guide is required and strictly enforced. applications that are out of compliance with these instructions may be delayed or not accepted for review.letter of intentalthough a letter of intent is not required, is not binding, and does not enter into the review of a subsequent application, the information that it contains allows nia staff to estimate the potential review workload and plan the review.by the date listed in part 1. overview information, prospective applicants are asked to submit a letter of intent that includes the following information:the letter of intent should be sent to:tiziana cogliati, ph.d. national institute on aging (nia) telephone: 240-397-4596 email: tiziana.cogliati@nih.govall page limitations described in the sf424 application guide and the table of page limits must be followed.the following section supplements the instructions found in the sf424 (r&r) application guide and should be used for preparing an application to this foa.note: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023, the data management and sharing plan will be attached in the other plan(s) attachment in forms-h application forms packages.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.the pd(s)/pi(s) and other personnel must be well suited to their roles in the dcc. in particular, areas of domain expertise such as statistics, data management, website design and management must be represented in the dcc team. the pd(s)/pi(s) and other personnel must have appropriate experience and training. they should have demonstrated experience and an ongoing record of accomplishments in managing biomedical research. the investigators must demonstrate significant experience with coordinating collaborative basic research.r&r budgetall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.r&r subaward budgetall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed, with the following additional instructions:research strategy: applicants should describe their prior work relevant to the functions of a dcc. they must describe approaches and procedures to coordinate among the three itp centers and with the dcc, including timelines and an organizational chart. the applicants should specify how the dcc will meet the needs of the itp research consortium. the applicants must specify how completion of the aims of the dcc will augment the capabilities of the program to manage and share data among the participating centers in real time and with the public through the website once data are published, and to maintain current information on available resources, such as tissues, from the interventions biospecimens repository.applicants must provide plans and timelines for data collection, annotation, and quality control. standardized procedures should be described by which data from the itp, including documentation on itp protocols and sops, will be gathered, entered into a database, and posted to a public facing website. applicants must provide plans for the acquisition and storage of data from the itp (e.g., compound pilot studies, lifespan, geropathology, pathology, transcriptomics). procedures must be described for the collection and curation of data generated by ancillary studies using tissues from the interventions biospecimens repository (e.g., different types of -omics and images) upon publication. plans and a timeline for the implementation of a database of tissues available in the interventions biospecimens repository must be included. applicants must describe how the itp dcc will maintain a backup of the database, software, etc., to protect against accidental loss. plans must be included for the development and maintenance of an analytical pipeline to monitor the quality, consistency, integrity, robustness, and cross-site reproducibility of the data. applicants must describe how they would maintain compatibility of older and new data if, over time, data formats are changed by the itp.applicants should describe plans to coordinate with the three itp test centers to establish a common, statistical platform and a statistical core for the itp program. they must describe how they will develop and implement statistical approaches and methods for lifespan analysis of stage i and ii itp data. timelines and milestones should be established for the development and implementation of the statistical tools for lifespan data analysis.applicants mustdescribe a plan for public access to the published data generated by the itp (e.g., pilot studies, lifespan data, geropathology, pathology, transcriptomics) and by ancillary studies (e.g., multiple -omics, images) and to an updated electronic inventory of tissues in the interventions biospecimens repository. they must describe plans and methods for how data from the itp and ancillary studies will be shared through an interactive website, including: 1) where the data will be stored, 2) the design of the interface for outside users to access these data, and 3) what kind of assistance is provided to the users for access and utilization of the data. applicants should describe what analytical tools (e.g., bioinformatics, statistical) will be established and made available at the interactive website to allow for data searching and comparisons across datasets generated through stage i and ii studies. a description mustbe included of the type of technical assistance provided to the website users (e.g., online user guide/tutorials, one-on-one consultations) to facilitate access to the website and data sharing. methodologies for tracking and metrics for analyzing the use of the website must be described. a timeline for the development, implementation and full access of the interactive public-facing website must be included.other plan(s):note: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023, the data management and sharing plan will be attached in the other plan(s) attachment in forms-h application forms packages.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed, with the following additional instructions:only limited appendix materials are allowed. follow all instructions for the appendix as described in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.when involving human subjects research, clinical research, and/or nih-defined clinical trials (and when applicable, clinical trials research experience) follow all instructions for the phs human subjects and clinical trials information form in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, with the following additional instructions:if you answered “yes” to the question “are human subjects involved?” on the r&r other project information form, you must include at least one human subjects study record using the study record: phs human subjects and clinical trials information form or delayed onset study record.study record: phs human subjects and clinical trials informationall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.delayed onset studynote: delayed onset does not apply to a study that can be described but will not start immediately (i.e., delayed start).all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.3. unique entity identifier and system for award management (sam)see part 1. section iii.1 for information regarding the requirement for obtaining a unique entity identifier and for completing and maintaining active registrations in system for award management (sam), nato commercial and government entity (ncage) code (if applicable), era commons, and grants.govpart i. overview information contains information about key dates and times. applicants are encouraged to submit applications before the due date to ensure they have time to make any application corrections that might be necessary for successful submission. when a submission date falls on a weekend or federal holiday, the application deadline is automatically extended to the next business day.organizations must submit applications to grants.gov (the online portal to find and apply for grants across all federal agencies). applicants must then complete the submission process by tracking the status of the application in the era commons, nih’s electronic system for grants administration. nih and grants.gov systems check the application against many of the application instructions upon submission. errors must be corrected and a changed/corrected application must be submitted to grants.gov on or before the application due date and time. if a changed/corrected application is submitted after the deadline, the application will be considered late. applications that miss the due date and time are subjected to the nih policy on late application submission.applicants are responsible for viewing their application before the due date in the era commons to ensure accurate and successful submission.information on the submission process and a definition of on-time submission are provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.5. intergovernmental review (e.o. 12372)this initiative is not subject to intergovernmental review.all nih awards are subject to the terms and conditions, cost principles, and other considerations described in the nih grants policy statement.pre-award costs are allowable only as described in the nih grants policy statement.applications must be submitted electronically following the instructions described in the sf424 (r&r) application guide. paper applications will not be accepted.applicants must complete all required registrations before the application due date. section iii. eligibility information contains information about registration.for assistance with your electronic application or for more information on the electronic submission process, visit how to apply – application guide. if you encounter a system issue beyond your control that threatens your ability to complete the submission process on-time, you must follow the dealing with system issues guidance. for assistance with application submission, contact the application submission contacts in section vii.important reminders:all pd(s)/pi(s) must include their era commons id in the credential fieldof the senior/key person profile form. failure to register in the commons and to include a valid pd/pi commons id in the credential field will prevent the successful submission of an electronic application to nih. see section iii of this foa for information on registration requirements.the applicant organization must ensure that the unique entity identifier provided on the application is the same identifier used in the organization’s profile in the era commons and for the system for award management. additional information may be found in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.see more tips for avoiding common errors.upon receipt, applications will be evaluated for completeness and compliance with application instructions by the center for scientific review and responsiveness by the national institute on aging (nia), nih. applications that are incomplete, non-compliant and/or nonresponsive will not be reviewed.in order to expedite review, applicants are requested to notify the nia referral office by email at ramesh.vemuri@nih.gov when the application has been submitted. please include the foa number and title, pd/pi name, and title of the application.applicants are required to follow the instructions for post-submission materials, as described in the policy1. criteriaonly the review criteria described below will be considered in the review process. applications submitted to the nih in support of the nih mission are evaluated for scientific and technical merit through the nih peer review system.note: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023, the data sharing plan and genomic data sharing plan (gds) will not be evaluated at time of review.overall impactreviewers will provide an overall impact score to reflect their assessment of the likelihood for the project to exert a sustained, powerful influence on the research field(s) involved, in consideration of the following review criteria and additional review criteria (as applicable for the project proposed).scored review criteriareviewers will consider each of the review criteria below in the determination of scientific merit and give a separate score for each. an application does not need to be strong in all categories to be judged likely to have major scientific impact. for example, a project that by its nature is not innovative may be essential to advance a field.significancedoes the proposed dcc address the needs of the research programs that it will serve? is the scope of activities proposed for the dcc appropriate to meet those needs? will successful completion of the aims bring unique advantages or capabilities to the research program?specific to this foa:how well does the proposed publicly accessible web interface address the need to facilitate data and resource sharing and to foster open science?investigator(s)are the pd(s)/pi(s) and other personnel well suited to their roles in the dcc? do they have appropriate experience and training, and have they demonstrated experience and an ongoing record of accomplishments in managing biomedical research? do the investigators demonstrate significant experience with coordinating collaborative basic research? if the center is multi-pd/pi, do the investigators have complementary and integrated expertise and skills: are their leadership approach, governance, plans for conflict resolution, and organizational structure appropriate for the center? does the applicant have experience overseeing selection and management of subawards, if needed?specific to this foa:how strongly represented are the specified areas of domain expertise (e.g., statistics, data management, website design and management) in the dcc team?innovationdoes the applicantion propose novel organizational concepts, management strategies, or instrumentation in coordinating the research program the dcc will serve? are the concepts, strategies, or instrumentation novel to one type of research program or applicable in a broad sense? is a refinement, improvement, or new application of organizational concepts, management strategies or instrumentation proposed?approachare the overall strategy, operational plan, and organizational structure well-reasoned and appropriate to accomplish the goals of the research program the dcc will serve? will the investigators promote strategies to ensure a robust and unbiased scientific approach across the program, as appropriate for the work proposed? are potential problems, alternative strategies, and benchmarks for success presented? if the program is in the early stages of operation, does the proposed strategy adequately establish feasibility and manage the risks associated with the activities of the program? are an appropriate plan for work-flow and a well-established timeline proposed? have the investigators presented adequate plans to ensure consideration of relevant biological variables, such as sex, for studies of vertebrate animals or human subjects?if the project involves human subjects and/or nih-defined clinical research, are the plans to address 1) the protection of human subjects from research risks, and 2) inclusion (or exclusion) of individuals on the basis of sex/gender, race, and ethnicity, as well as the inclusion or exclusion of individuals of all ages (including children and older adults), justified in terms of the scientific goals and research strategy proposed?specific to this foa:how robust are the approaches and procedures (e.g., timelines, organizational charts, etc.) proposed to coordinate among the three itp centers and with the dcc?how well do the activities proposed by the dcc advance timely data sharing among the itp centers and with the scientific community?how well do the applicants address data collection, annotation, and quality control in their plans?how robust is the analytical pipeline proposed to monitor the quality, consistency, integrity, robustness, and cross-site reproducibility of the data?how adequate are the applicants’ plans to acquire and store data from the itp and the ancillary studies conducted on tissues from the interventions biospecimens repository?how adequate are the plans to maintain a backup of the database, software, etc., to protect against accidental loss?how appropriate are the proposed statistical approaches and methods of analysis of stage i and ii itp lifespan data?how adequate and feasible is the plan for public access to published data from the itp and the ancillary studies?how well described and adequate is the interactive interface (website) proposed for outside users to access the itp data and data from ancillary studies?how adequate is the proposed assistance provided to the users to access the data and the proposed analytical tools to help users search and compare data?how reasonable and feasible is the timeline for developing and implementing the public-facing website for sharing the lifespan data and the database of tissues stored in the repository?how practical and efficacious are the methodologies proposed for tracking and the metricsfor analysis of website access and use?how sound are the proposed approaches to maintain data compatibility and monitor rigor and reproducibility of data?environmentwill the institutional environment in which the dcc will operate contribute to the probability of success in facilitating the research program it serves? are the institutional support, equipment and other physical resources available to the investigators adequate for the proposed dcc? will the dcc benefit from unique features of the institutional environment, infrastructure, or personnel? are resources available within the scientific environment to support electronic information handling?additional review criteriaas applicable for the project proposed, reviewers will evaluate the following additional items while determining scientific and technical merit, and in providing an overall impact score, but will not give separate scores for these items.protections for human subjectsfor research that involves human subjects but does not involve one of the categories of research that are exempt under 45 cfr part 46, the committee will evaluate the justification for involvement of human subjects and the proposed protections from research risk relating to their participation according to the following five review criteria: 1) risk to subjects, 2) adequacy of protection against risks, 3) potential benefits to the subjects and others, 4) importance of the knowledge to be gained, and 5) data and safety monitoring for clinical trials.for research that involves human subjects and meets the criteria for one or more of the categories of research that are exempt under 45 cfr part 46, the committee will evaluate: 1) the justification for the exemption, 2) human subjects involvement and characteristics, and 3) sources of materials. for additional information on review of the human subjects section, please refer to the guidelines for the review of human subjects.inclusion of women, minorities, and individuals across the lifespanwhen the proposed project involves human subjects and/or nih-defined clinical research, the committee will evaluate the proposed plans for the inclusion (or exclusion) of individuals on the basis of sex/gender, race, and ethnicity, as well as the inclusion (or exclusion) of individuals of all ages (including children and older adults) to determine if it is justified in terms of the scientific goals and research strategy proposed. for additional information on review of the inclusion section, please refer to the guidelines for the review of inclusion in clinical research.vertebrate animalsthe committee will evaluate the involvement of live vertebrate animals as part of the scientific assessment according to the following criteria: (1) description of proposed procedures involving animals, including species, strains, ages, sex, and total number to be used; (2) justifications for the use of animals versus alternative models and for the appropriateness of the species proposed; (3) interventions to minimize discomfort, distress, pain and injury; and (4) justification for euthanasia method if not consistent with the avma guidelines for the euthanasia of animals. reviewers will assess the use of chimpanzees as they would any other application proposing the use of vertebrate animals. for additional information on review of the vertebrate animals section, please refer to the worksheet for review of the vertebrate animals section.biohazardsreviewers will assess whether materials or procedures proposed are potentially hazardous to research personnel and/or the environment, and if needed, determine whether adequate protection is proposed.resubmissionsnot applicablerenewalsfor renewals, the committee will consider the progress made in the last funding period.revisionsnot applicableas applicable for the project proposed, reviewers will consider each of the following items, but will not give scores for these items, and should not consider them in providing an overall impact score.applications from foreign organizationsnot applicable.select agent researchreviewers will assess the information provided in this section of the application, including 1) the select agent(s) to be used in the proposed research, 2) the registration status of all entities where select agent(s) will be used, 3) the procedures that will be used to monitor possession use and transfer of select agent(s), and 4) plans for appropriate biosafety, biocontainment, and security of the select agent(s).resource sharing plansnote: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023, the data sharing plan and genomic data sharing plan (gds) will not be evaluated at time of review.reviewers will comment on whether the resource sharing plan(s) (i.e., sharing model organisms) or the rationale for not sharing the resources, is reasonable.authentication of key biological and/or chemical resources:forprogramsinvolving key biological and/or chemical resources, reviewers will comment on the brief plans proposed for identifying and ensuring the validity of those resources.budget and period of supportreviewers will consider whether the budget and the requested period of support are fully justified and reasonable in relation to the proposed research.2. review and selection processapplications will be evaluated for scientific and technical merit by (an) appropriate scientific review group(s) convened by the national institute on aging, in accordance with nih peer review policy and procedures, using the stated review criteria above. assignment to a scientific review group will be shown in the era commons.as part of the scientific peer review, all applications will receive a written critique.applications may undergo a selection process in which only those applications deemed to have the highest scientific and technical merit (generally the top half of applications under review) will be discussed and assigned an overall impact score.appeals of initial peer review will not be accepted for applications submitted in response to this foa.applications will be assigned to the appropriate nih institute or center. applications will compete for available funds with all other recommended applications submitted in response to this foa. following initial peer review, recommended applications will receive a second level of review by the national advisory council on aging (naca). the following will be considered in making funding decisions:3. anticipated announcement and award datesafter the peer review of the application is completed, the pd/pi will be able to access his or her summary statement (written critique) via the era commons. refer to part 1 for dates for peer review, advisory council review, and earliest start date.information regarding the disposition of applications is available in the nih grants policy statement.1. award noticesif the application is under consideration for funding, nih will request "just-in-time" information from the applicant as described in the nih grants policy statement.a formal notification in the form of a notice of award (noa) will be provided to the applicant organization for successful applications. the noa signed by the grants management officer is the authorizing document and will be sent via email to the recipient's business official.recipients must comply with any funding restrictions described in section iv.5. funding restrictions. selection of an application for award is not an authorization to begin performance. any costs incurred before receipt of the noa are at the recipient's risk. these costs may be reimbursed only to the extent considered allowable pre-award costs.any application awarded in response to this foa will be subject to terms and conditions found on the award conditions and information for nih grants website. this includes any recent legislation and policy applicable to awards that is highlighted on this website.institutional review board or independent ethics committee approval: recipient institutions must ensure that protocols are reviewed by their irb or iec. to help ensure the safety of participants enrolled in nih-funded studies, the recipient must provide nih copies of documents related to all major changes in the status of ongoing protocols.2. administrative and national policy requirementsall nih grant and cooperative agreement awards include the nih grants policy statement as part of the noa. for these terms of award, see the nih grants policy statement part ii: terms and conditions of nih grant awards, subpart a: general and part ii: terms and conditions of nih grant awards, subpart b: terms and conditions for specific types of grants, recipients, and activities, including of note, but not limited to:if a recipient is successful and receives a notice of award, in accepting the award, the recipient agrees that any activities under the award are subject to all provisions currently in effect or implemented during the period of the award, other department regulations and policies in effect at the time of the award, and applicable statutory provisions.should the applicant organization successfully compete for an award, recipients of federal financial assistance (ffa) from hhs must administer their programs in compliance with federal civil rights laws that prohibit discrimination on the basis of race, color, national origin, disability, age and, in some circumstances, religion, conscience, and sex (including gender identity, sexual orientation, and pregnancy). this includes ensuring programs are accessible to persons with limited english proficiency and persons with disabilities. the hhs office for civil rights provides guidance on complying with civil rights laws enforced by hhs. please see https://www.hhs.gov/civil-rights/for-providers/provider-obligations/index.html and https://www.hhs.gov/civil-rights/for-individuals/nondiscrimination/index.htmlhhs recognizes that research projects are often limited in scope for many reasons that are nondiscriminatory, such as the principal investigator’s scientific interest, funding limitations, recruitment requirements, and other considerations. thus, criteria in research protocols that target or exclude certain populations are warranted where nondiscriminatory justifications establish that such criteria are appropriate with respect to the health or safety of the subjects, the scientific study design, or the purpose of the research. for additional guidance regarding how the provisions apply to nih grant programs, please contact the scientific/research contact that is identified in section vii under agency contacts of this foa.please contact the hhs office for civil rights for more information about obligations and prohibitions under federal civil rights laws at https://www.hhs.gov/ocr/about-us/contact-us/index.html or call 1-800-368-1019 or tdd 1-800-537-7697.in accordance with the statutory provisions contained in section 872 of the duncan hunter national defense authorization act of fiscal year 2009 (public law 110-417), nih awards will be subject to the federal awardee performance and integrity information system (fapiis) requirements. fapiis requires federal award making officials to review and consider information about an applicant in the designated integrity and performance system (currently fapiis) prior to making an award. an applicant, at its option, may review information in the designated integrity and performance systems accessible through fapiis and comment on any information about itself that a federal agency previously entered and is currently in fapiis. the federal awarding agency will consider any comments by the applicant, in addition to other information in fapiis, in making a judgement about the applicant’s integrity, business ethics, and record of performance under federal awards when completing the review of risk posed by applicants as described in 45 cfr part 75.205 and 2 cfr part 200.206 “federal awarding agency review of risk posed by applicants.” this provision will apply to all nih grants and cooperative agreements except fellowships.the following special terms of award are in addition to, and not in lieu of, otherwise applicable u.s. office of management and budget (omb) administrative guidelines, u.s. department of health and human services (dhhs) grant administration regulations at 45 cfr parts 5, and other hhs, phs, and nih grant administration policies.the administrative and funding instrument used for this program will be the cooperative agreement, an "assistance" mechanism (rather than an "acquisition" mechanism), in which substantial nih programmatic involvement with the awardees is anticipated during the performance of the activities. under the cooperative agreement, the nih purpose is to support and stimulate the recipients' activities by involvement in and otherwise working jointly with the award recipients in a partnership role; it is not to assume direction, prime responsibility, or a dominant role in the activities. consistent with this concept, the dominant role and prime responsibility resides with the awardees for the project as a whole, although specific tasks and activities may be shared among the awardees and the nih as defined below.the pd(s)/pi(s) will have the primary responsibility for:obtaining, integrating, and managing data submitted by the three centers conducting the itp and by investigators conducting ancillary studies. the pi will provide expertise and leadership in addressing issues of analysis methodology, facilitate data quality monitoring through data management, and will be responsible for the coordination of the eventual release of methods, tools, data and results obtained by the itp and the ancillary studies to the scientific community through the public-facing website. the pi will also participate in steering committee (see below) meetings of the itp that include monthly meetings with the nia representative.nih staff will have substantial programmatic involvement that is above and beyond the normal stewardship role in awards, as described below:an nia health scientist administrator will be the nia project scientist for this award and will be responsible for scientific involvement in the itp and itp dcc. the nia project scientist will exercise substantial scientific and programmatic involvement to assist, guide, coordinate and participate in the conduct of the itp dcc activity. the nia project scientist will coordinate monthly meetings with the pds/pis and participate in the design, implementation, and evaluation of the program. the nia project scientist will also attend and participate in all meetings of the steering committee as a voting member, and will provide liaison between the steering committee and the nia/nih. as such, the nia project scientist will assist the steering committee in developing and drafting operating policies, and policies for dealing with recurring situations that require a coordinated action.additionally, an agency program official will be responsible for the normal scientific and programmatic stewardship of the award and will be named in the award notice.areas of joint responsibility include:steering committee: this committee will be the main governing body of the itp and itp dcc. its voting members will include the pd/pi of each itp center as well as the pi from the itp dcc, the nia project scientist, and at least four biogerontologists covering a broad range of expertise who are not affiliated with the itp. these additional members will be chosen by the pds/pis and the nia project scientist. the nia project scientist will not chair the committee. the primary roles of the steering committee are to prioritize the interventions recommended by the access panel (see below); decide which stage i studies will proceed to stage ii studies; and develop a consensus on testing protocols to be employed in stage ii studies. in carrying out these responsibilities, the steering committee should seek advice from outside experts as needed and is encouraged to include the investigator(s) who either discovered or developed the intervention in their discussions, as appropriate. these individuals, when present at committee meetings, will be temporary non-voting members of the committee. the steering committee will meet once a year or as needed. each full member will have one vote. awardee members of the steering committee will be required to accept and implement policies approved by the steering committee. the access panel will review the applications proposing compounds to be tested by the itp. members of the access panel will be selected by the steering committee.dispute resolution:any disagreements that may arise in scientific or programmatic matters (within the scope of the award) between award recipients and the nih may be brought to dispute resolution. a dispute resolution panel composed of three members will be convened. it will have three members: a designee of the steering committee chosen without nih staff voting, one nih designee, and a third designee with expertise in the relevant area who is chosen by the other two; in the case of individual disagreement, the first member may be chosen by the individual awardee. this special dispute resolution procedure does not alter the awardee's right to appeal an adverse action that is otherwise appealable in accordance with phs regulation 42 cfr part 50, subpart d and dhhs regulation 45 cfr part 16.3. data management and sharingnote: the nih policy for data management and sharing is effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023.consistent with the nih policy for data management and sharing, when data management and sharing is applicable to the award, recipients will be required to adhere to the data management and sharing requirements as outlined in the nih grants policy statement. upon the approval of a data management and sharing plan, it is required for recipients to implement the plan as described.4. reportingwhen multiple years are involved, recipients will be required to submit the research performance progress report (rppr) annually and financial statements as required in the nih grants policy statement.a final rppr, invention statement, and the expenditure data portion of the federal financial report are required for closeout of an award, as described in the nih grants policy statement. nih foas outline intended research goals and objectives. post award, nih will review and measure performance based on the details and outcomes that are shared within the rppr, as described at 45 cfr part 75.301 and 2 cfr part 200.301.the federal funding accountability and transparency act of 2006 (transparency act), includes a requirement for recipients of federal grants to report information about first-tier subawards and executive compensation under federal assistance awards issued in fy2011 or later. all recipients of applicable nih grants and cooperative agreements are required to report to the federal subaward reporting system (fsrs) available at www.fsrs.gov on all subawards over $25,000. see the nih grants policy statement for additional information on this reporting requirement.in accordance with the regulatory requirements provided at 45 cfr 75.113 and appendix xii to 45 cfr part 75, recipients that have currently active federal grants, cooperative agreements, and procurement contracts from all federal awarding agencies with a cumulative total value greater than $10,000,000 for any period of time during the period of performance of a federal award, must report and maintain the currency of information reported in the system for award management (sam) about civil, criminal, and administrative proceedings in connection with the award or performance of a federal award that reached final disposition within the most recent five-year period. the recipient must also make semiannual disclosures regarding such proceedings. proceedings information will be made publicly available in the designated integrity and performance system (currently fapiis). this is a statutory requirement under section 872 of public law 110-417, as amended (41 u.s.c. 2313). as required by section 3010 of public law 111-212, all information posted in the designated integrity and performance system on or after april 15, 2011, except past performance reviews required for federal procurement contracts, will be publicly available. full reporting requirements and procedures are found in appendix xii to 45 cfr part 75 – award term and conditions for recipient integrity and performance matters.we encourage inquiries concerning this funding opportunity and welcome the opportunity to answer questions from potential applicants.era service desk (questions regarding assist, era commons, application errors and warnings, documenting system problems that threaten submission by the due date, and post-submission issues)finding help online: https://www.era.nih.gov/need-help (preferred method of contact) telephone: 301-402-7469 or 866-504-9552 (toll free)general grants information (questions regarding application instructions, application processes, and nih grant resources) email: grantsinfo@nih.gov (preferred method of contact) telephone: 301-637-3015grants.gov customer support (questions regarding grants.gov registration and workspace) contact center telephone: 800-518-4726 email: support@grants.govtiziana cogliati, ph.d. national institute on aging (nia) telephone: 240-397-4596 email: tiziana.cogliati@nih.govramesh vemuri, ph.d. national institute on aging (nia) telephone: 301-402-7700 email: ramesh.vemuri@nih.govjessi perez national institute on aging (nia) telephone: 301-402-7739 email: jessi.perez@nih.govrecently issued trans-nih policy notices may affect your application submission. a full list of policy notices published by nih is provided in the nih guide for grants and contracts. all awards are subject to the terms and conditions, cost principles, and other considerations described in the nih grants policy statement.awards are made under the authorization of sections 301 and 405 of the public health service act as amended (42 usc 241 and 284) and under federal regulations 42 cfr part 52 and 45 cfr part 75 and 2 cfr part 200.weekly toc for this announcement nih funding opportunities and noticesnote: for help accessing pdf, rtf, ms word, excel, powerpoint, audio or video files, see help downloading files.