Avenir Award Program for Chemistry and Pharmacology of Substance Use Disorders (DP1- Clinical Trial Not Allowed)
https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/rfa-files/RFA-DA-24-007.html
national institutes of health (nih)national institute on drug abuse (nida)dp1 nih director’s pioneer award (ndpa)not-od-23-012 reminder: forms-h grant application forms and instructions must be used for due dates on or after january 25, 2023 - new grant application instructions now availablenot-od-22-195 new nih "forms-h" grant application forms and instructions coming for due dates on or after january 25, 2023not-od-22-189 implementation details for the nih data management and sharing policynot-od-22-198 implementation changes for genomic data sharing plans included with applications due on or after january 25, 2023see section iii. 3. additional information on eligibility.avenir means future in french, and this avenir award program looks toward the future by supporting early stage investigators proposing highly innovative research in the area of chemistry and pharmacology of substance use disorders and addiction. the purpose of this award is to support those in an early stage of their career who may lack the preliminary data required for an r01 grant, but who propose high impact research and who show promise of being tomorrow's leaders in the field.30 days prior to the application due dateall applications are due by 5:00 pm local time of applicant organization.applicants are encouraged to apply early to allow adequate time to make any corrections to errors found in the application during the submission process by the due date.not applicableit is critical that applicants follow the instructions in the research (r) instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, except where instructed to do otherwise (in this foa or in a notice from nih guide for grants and contracts).conformance to all requirements (both in the application guide and the foa) is required and strictly enforced. applicants must read and follow all application instructions in the application guide as well as any program-specific instructions noted in section iv. when the program-specific instructions deviate from those in the application guide, follow the program-specific instructions.applications that do not comply with these instructions may be delayed or not accepted for review.there are several options available to submit your application through grants.gov to nih and department of health and human services partners. you must use one of these submission options to access the application forms for this opportunity.the avenir award for chemistry and pharmacology of substance use disorders program will support early stage investigators proposing transformative studies that open new avenues of research in the area of chemistry and pharmacology of addictive substances, substance use disorders and addiction. the research may focus on development of novel chemical, pharmacological, or computational methods and tools that can potentially be applied to investigate basic mechanisms, targets, and pathways of relevance to treating addiction and substance use disorders. investigators outside the field of addiction who are interested in applying their novel approaches to the chemistry and pharmacology of addiction are encouraged to apply.a hyperlink to frequently asked questions (faqs) avenir award program for chemistry and pharmacology of substance use disorders (dp1) is provided to assist early stage investigators (esi) in applying for this funding opportunity announcement. the url for the faq web page is https://nida.nih.gov/funding/nida-funding-opportunities/faqs-avenir-award-chemistry-pharmacology-007.this announcement is focused on substance use disorders and addiction, and not their medical consequences. applicants interested in medical consequences of substance use disorders should contact the program official(s) listed at end of this announcement about alternative funding opportunities.see section viii. other information for award authorities and regulations.grant: a support mechanism providing money, property, or both to an eligible entity to carry out an approved project or activity.the oer glossary and the sf424 (r&r) application guide provide details on these application types. only those application types listed here are allowed for this foa.not allowed: only accepting applications that do not propose clinical trials.need help determining whether you are doing a clinical trial?nida intends to commit $3,000,000 in each fiscal year fy 2024 - fy 2026 to fund 5-6 awards each year.application budgets are limited to $300,000 in direct costs each year for up to five years, plus applicable facilities and administrative (f&a) costs to be determined at the time of award.the scope of the proposed project should determine the project period. the maximum project period is 5 years.nih grants policies as described in the nih grants policy statement will apply to the applications submitted and awards made from this foa.1. eligible applicantshigher education institutionsthe following types of higher education institutions are always encouraged to apply for nih support as public or private institutions of higher education:nonprofits other than institutions of higher educationfor-profit organizationslocal governmentsfederal governmentothernon-domestic (non-u.s.) entities (foreign institutions) are eligible to apply.non-domestic (non-u.s.) components of u.s. organizations are eligible to apply.foreign components, as defined in the nih grants policy statement, are allowed.applicant organizationsapplicant organizations must complete and maintain the following registrations as described in the sf 424 (r&r) application guide to be eligible to apply for or receive an award. all registrations must be completed prior to the application being submitted. registration can take 6 weeks or more, so applicants should begin the registration process as soon as possible. the nih policy on late submission of grant applications states that failure to complete registrations in advance of a due date is not a valid reason for a late submission.program directors/principal investigators (pd(s)/pi(s))all pd(s)/pi(s) must have an era commons account. pd(s)/pi(s) should work with their organizational officials to either create a new account or to affiliate their existing account with the applicant organization in era commons. if the pd/pi is also the organizational signing official, they must have two distinct era commons accounts, one for each role. obtaining an era commons account can take up to 2 weeks.any individual(s) with the skills, knowledge, and resources necessary to carry out the proposed research as the program director(s)/principal investigator(s) (pd(s)/pi(s)) is invited to work with his/her organization to develop an application for support. individuals from diverse backgrounds, including underrepresented racial and ethnic groups, individuals with disabilities, and women are always encouraged to apply for nih support. see, reminder: notice of nih's encouragement of applications supporting individuals from underrepresented ethnic and racial groups as well as individuals with disabilities, not-od-22-019.for institutions/organizations proposing multiple pds/pis, visit the multiple program director/principal investigator policy and submission details in the senior/key person profile (expanded) component of the sf424 (r&r) application guide.for the purpose of this foa, multiple pd(s)/pi(s) are not allowed. the project director/principal investigator (pd/pi) is the only individual who can be listed on the sf424 form.applicants must meet the definition of an early stage investigator (esi) at the time of submission. an esi is a new investigator (defined as a pd/pi who has not completed successfully for a significant nih independent research award) who is within 10 years of completing his/her terminal research degree or is within 10 years of completing medical residency (or the equivalent). a complete list of nih grants that do not disqualify a pd/pi as a new investigator can be found at: https://grants.nih.gov/policy/early-investigators/index.htm.frequently asked questions about the nih early stage investigator (esi) policy can be found at https://grants.nih.gov/policy/early-investigators/index.htm/.an extension to the 10-year period may be granted under special circumstances (e.g., childbirth, family care responsibilities, extended periods of clinical training, disability or illness, etc.). see not-od-19-125 (https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/notice-files/not-od-19-125.html) for instructions on applying for an esi extension.applicants are responsible for reviewing and/or updating their degree information in their era commons account in a timely fashion. applicants should allow several weeks for an extension request to be processed. note: if an applicant is not identified as an esi in the era commons, it may result in the application not being reviewed.applicants also must hold an independent research position at a domestic (u.s.) institution as of september 1 of the fiscal year of the competition (federal fiscal year starts october 1 and ends september 30). for the purpose of this foa, “independent research position” means a position that automatically confers eligibility, by the applicant’s institutional policy, for an investigator to apply for r01 grants, with an appropriate commitment of facilities to be used for the conduct of the proposed research. investigators still in training or mentored status (postdoctoral fellows) may apply if, by the receipt date, they have a written commitment of an independent faculty position as of september 1 of the fiscal year of the competition.applicants may submit or have an r01 (or other equivalent) grant application pending concurrently with their avenir award application provided that each application is scientifically distinct. if the applicant receives an r01 before the avenir can be awarded, then the investigator is no longer eligible for an avenir award. please see section 3, below, for more information about limitations on overlapping applications.awardees are required to commit a minimum of 3 person months (25%) out of a 12 month calendar year each year to activities supported by the avenir award.2. cost sharingthis foa does not require cost sharing as defined in the nih grants policy statement.3. additional information on eligibilitynumber of applicationsapplicant organizations may submit more than one application, provided that each application is scientifically distinct.the nih will not accept duplicate or highly overlapping applications under review at the same time, per 2.3.7.4 submission of resubmission application. this means that the nih will not accept:1. requesting an application packagethe application forms package specific to this opportunity must be accessed through assist, grants.gov workspace or an institutional system-to-system solution. links to apply using assist or grants.gov workspace are available in part 1 of this foa. see your administrative office for instructions if you plan to use an institutional system-to-system solution.2. content and form of application submissionit is critical that applicants follow the instructions in the research (r) instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide except where instructed in this funding opportunity announcement to do otherwise. conformance to the requirements in the application guide is required and strictly enforced. applications that are out of compliance with these instructions may be delayed or not accepted for review.letter of intentalthough a letter of intent is not required, is not binding, and does not enter into the review of a subsequent application, the information that it contains allows ic staff to estimate the potential review workload and plan the review.by the date listed in part 1. overview information, prospective applicants are asked to submit a letter of intent that includes the following information:the letter of intent should be sent to: nidaletterofintent@mail.nih.govall page limitations described in the sf424 application guide and the table of page limits must be followed.the following section supplements the instructions found in the sf424 (r&r) application guide and should be used for preparing an application to this foa.note: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023, the data management and sharing plan will be attached in the other plan(s) attachment in forms-h application forms packages.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.agency routing identifier: enter “n/a”.type of application: must be “new”.proposed project: start date april 1sttotal federal funds requested: enter $1,500,000.total non-federal funds: enter $0.total federal & non-federal funds: enter $1,500,000. (see note below.)estimated program income: enter $0.note: the budget request is entered only in the fields for "total federal funds requested" and "total federal & non-federal funds" as described above. funds may be requested for personnel (including collaborators), supplies, equipment, sub-contracts, and other allowable costs. only the five-year total – $1.5 million – should be entered in the fields for "total federal funds requested" and "total federal & non-federal funds" lines 15a and c. applicable facilities and administrative (f&a) costs will be determined at the time of award and should not be included in the budget request. a detailed budget is not requested and will not be accepted.cover letter: provide names and affiliations of significant collaborators for the avenir award project. biosketches of collaborators are not allowed. provision of names here is only to help exclude conflicts during reviewer assignment. information regarding any collaborators may be included in the essay.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.project summary/abstract: attach an abstract describing the goals of the project: text only – no figures, animations, or web links are allowed.project narrative: in 2-3 sentences written in plain language describe how the proposed research can be applied to study the chemistry and pharmacology of substance use and addiction.bibliography & references cited: do not use. reference citations are not required, but may be included in the essay and are included in the page limit.facilities & other resources: upload a brief statement (1-page maximum) of the facilities to be used for the conduct of the research.equipment: do not use.other attachments: do not use.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.profile – project director/principal investigator field –attach biographical sketch: attach the pd(s)/pi(s) biographical sketch using the sample format on the biographical sketch format page shown in the application guide, omitting section a (personal statement) and section d (research support). no biographical sketches of potential collaborators or other key personnel are to be submitted and will not be accepted.current and pending support: attach a list of current and pending support from all sources, including current year total costs and percent effort devoted to each project. profile – senior key person 1: do not use. submit information only for pd/pi. information on collaborators or other key personnel is not required but may be included in the essay. research and related senior/key person profile (expanded) - additional senior/key person profiles(s): do not use. only the pd/pi may serve as senior/key personnel. research and related senior/key person profile (expanded) - additional biographical sketch(es): do not use. only the pd/pi may submit a biographical sketch.modular budgetdo not submit.do not provide subaward budget formsr&r subaward budgetdo not submit.do not provide subaward budget formsall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed, with the following additional instructions:project title: the project title must be included at the beginning of the essay.specific aims: do not use.research strategy: upload essay here.submit an essay that addresses (1) the significance and potential impact of the project to open new areas of research leading to an understanding of the chemical and biological underpinnings of substance use or substance use disorders as well as leading to new avenues for treatment and prevention of substance use disorders and (2) what makes the approaches exceptionally innovative and how the applicant will address risks and challenges, and (3) the applicant’s qualifications for this award. the description of the scientific plan should be written with a level of detail appropriate for reviewers who are broadly knowledgeable about the chemistry and pharmacology of substance abuse but who may not be directly involved in the proposed area of research. to focus the essay on the goals of the avenir award program and the review criteria for applications, presentation of the proposed research as a series of specific aims is discouraged. preliminary data are allowed but not required. the essay should include the following sections within the page limit, in the following order, with the headings as shown below:project title: the project title must be included at the beginning of the essay.statement of research effort commitment: a statement must be included that, if chosen to receive an award, the applicant will commit a minimum of 25% or 3 person months of his/her research effort to the project supported by the avenir award. applications without such a statement will be considered incomplete.project description: describe the scientific problem that you propose to address, its importance, and how solving this problem would have a major impact on the chemical and pharmacological approaches to understand and address substance use or substance use disorders. why is the planned research uniquely suited to the avenir award program, rather than a traditional grant mechanism? how is this project distinct from other research that may be supported in your laboratory?innovativeness: the essay should describe the individual's view of the major challenges in understanding and applying chemical and pharmacological approaches to address substance use disorder and how they can make seminal contributions. state clearly and concisely what makes your project unusually innovative. if the approaches entail a high degree of risk, what will you do if these approaches are not successful?investigator qualifications: provide evidence to support your claim of innovativeness and creativity in your research. for example, which personal qualities and experiences demonstrate your inclination to challenge paradigms and take intellectual risks, develop unique collaborations, integrate diverse sources of information, or develop novel approaches when new challenges or opportunities arise?note: information on collaborations may be included in the essay. bibliographic citations are not required, but if included must fit within the page limit. applicants may use pubmed ids for citations to conserve space. figures and illustrations may be included but must also fit within the page limit. do not include links to websites to provide further information. no animations (movies) are allowed in any documents.letters of support: provide letters of support from significant collaborators for the avenir award project.other plan(s):note: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023, the data management and sharing plan will be attached in the other plan(s) attachment in forms-h application forms packages.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed, with the following additional instructions:appendix materials are not allowed.when involving human subjects research, clinical research, and/or nih-defined clinical trials (and when applicable, clinical trials research experience) follow all instructions for the phs human subjects and clinical trials information form in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, with the following additional instructions:if you answered “yes” to the question “are human subjects involved?” on the r&r other project information form, you must include at least one human subjects study record using the study record: phs human subjects and clinical trials information form or delayed onset study record.study record: phs human subjects and clinical trials informationall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.delayed onset studynote: delayed onset does not apply to a study that can be described but will not start immediately (i.e., delayed start).all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.foreign institutionsforeign (non-u.s.) institutions must follow policies described in the nih grants policy statement, and procedures for foreign institutions described throughout the sf424 (r&r) application guide.3. unique entity identifier and system for award management (sam)see part 1. section iii.1 for information regarding the requirement for obtaining a unique entity identifier and for completing and maintaining active registrations in system for award management (sam), nato commercial and government entity (ncage) code (if applicable), era commons, and grants.govpart i. overview information contains information about key dates and times. applicants are encouraged to submit applications before the due date to ensure they have time to make any application corrections that might be necessary for successful submission. when a submission date falls on a weekend or federal holiday, the application deadline is automatically extended to the next business day.organizations must submit applications to grants.gov (the online portal to find and apply for grants across all federal agencies). applicants must then complete the submission process by tracking the status of the application in the era commons, nih’s electronic system for grants administration. nih and grants.gov systems check the application against many of the application instructions upon submission. errors must be corrected and a changed/corrected application must be submitted to grants.gov on or before the application due date and time. if a changed/corrected application is submitted after the deadline, the application will be considered late. applications that miss the due date and time are subjected to the nih policy on late application submission.applicants are responsible for viewing their application before the due date in the era commons to ensure accurate and successful submission.information on the submission process and a definition of on-time submission are provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.5. intergovernmental review (e.o. 12372)this initiative is not subject to intergovernmental review.all nih awards are subject to the terms and conditions, cost principles, and other considerations described in the nih grants policy statement.pre-award costs are allowable only as described in the nih grants policy statement.applications must be submitted electronically following the instructions described in the sf424 (r&r) application guide. paper applications will not be accepted.applicants must complete all required registrations before the application due date. section iii. eligibility information contains information about registration.for assistance with your electronic application or for more information on the electronic submission process, visit how to apply – application guide. if you encounter a system issue beyond your control that threatens your ability to complete the submission process on-time, you must follow the dealing with system issues guidance. for assistance with application submission, contact the application submission contacts in section vii.important reminders:all pd(s)/pi(s) must include their era commons id in the credential fieldof the senior/key person profile form. failure to register in the commons and to include a valid pd/pi commons id in the credential field will prevent the successful submission of an electronic application to nih. see section iii of this foa for information on registration requirements.the applicant organization must ensure that the unique entity identifier provided on the application is the same identifier used in the organization’s profile in the era commons and for the system for award management. additional information may be found in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.see more tips for avoiding common errors.upon receipt, applications will be evaluated for completeness and compliance with application instructions by the center for scientific review and responsiveness by nida , nih. applications that are incomplete, non-compliant and/or nonresponsive will not be reviewed.applicants are required to follow the instructions for post-submission materials, as described in the policyletters of reference:letters of reference are an important component of the application. applicants must arrange to have three (and no more than three) letters of reference submitted on their behalf. applications that are missing letters of reference will be considered incomplete and will not be reviewed. late letters will not be accepted. applicants are responsible for monitoring the submission of their letters to ensure that three letters have been submitted prior to the submission deadline. applicants are encouraged to check the status of their letters in application status page in commons.letters may be submitted beginning july 9 and must be submitted no later than 5:00 p.m. (local time of applicant organization), august 9.to submit a letter of reference, the referee will need the following information:letters of reference are confidential. applicants will not have access to the letters. email confirmations will be sent to both the applicant and the referee. the confirmation sent to the applicant will include the referee’s name and the date and time the letter was submitted. the confirmation sent to the referee will include the referee and applicant’s names, a confirmation number, and the date and time the letter was submitted.note: since email can be unreliable, it is the applicant’s responsibility to check the status of his/her letters of reference periodically in the commons.instructions for referees:letters may be submitted to the commons at (https://public.era.nih.gov/commons/public/reference/submitreferenceletter.do?mode=new) beginning july 9 and must be submitted no later than 5:00 p.m. (local time of applicant organization), august 9. late letters will not be accepted and applications with fewer than three letters will not be reviewed. letters must be submitted electronically – paper copies will not be accepted.the applicant’s name should be placed at the top of the letter. although signatures are not required, the letter must include a signature block with the referee’s full name, title, institution, and contact information.in two pages or less, describe the applicant’s qualities that support the applicant’s claim to scientific innovativeness and creativity. when possible, give specific examples that illustrate these qualities. address the likelihood that the applicant will conduct groundbreaking research in the proposed research area.note: the letter submission page can be accessed without signing into the commons, and referees do not need to be registered in the commons. referees must provide the applicant’s commons user name (user id) and the other information below:referee information (the individual providing the letter of reference):applicant information (applicants must send this information to their referees):email confirmations will be sent to both the applicant and the referee following submission of the letter. the email confirmation will include a confirmation number that will be required only when submitting a revised or changed/corrected letter. please print the confirmation email for your records.1. criteriaonly the review criteria described below will be considered in the review process. applications submitted to the nih in support of the nih mission are evaluated for scientific and technical merit through the nih peer review system.note: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023, the data sharing plan and genomic data sharing plan (gds) will not be evaluated at time of review.for this particular announcement, note the following:nida avenir award (dp1) applications are meant to support individual scientists of exceptional creativity who propose pioneering -- and possibly transforming -- approaches that, if successful, will have a major impact on a broad area of biomedical or behavioral research. nida avenir award applications do not require preliminary data, scientific aims, or a detailed research plan. accordingly, reviewers will emphasize the following:applications that are complete will be reviewed by a multidisciplinary scientific review group of outside experts convened by the national institute on drug abuse in accordance with nih peer review procedures (http://grants1.nih.gov/grants/peer/), using the stated review criteria. applicants whose applications are deemed to be highly meritorious will be invited for interviews by a multidisciplinary scientific review group. final selection of awardees will be made by the director, national institute on drug abuse, nih, based on the outcome of the peer review, concurrence of national advisory council on drug abuse, and programmatic considerations. final selections will be announced publicly.applications that are not selected for interview phase of review will be designated as “not discussed” and will not receive a numerical overall impact score. applications selected for the second phase of review (interview) will receive summary statements with a numerical overall impact score.overall impactreviewers will provide an overall impact score to reflect their assessment of the likelihood for the project to exert a sustained, powerful influence on the research field(s) involved, in consideration of the following review criteria and additional review criteria (as applicable for the project proposed).scored review criteriareviewers will consider each of the review criteria below in the determination of scientific merit and give a separate score for each. an application does not need to be strong in all categories to be judged likely to have major scientific impact. for example, a project that by its nature is not innovative may be essential to advance a field.significancedoes the project address an important problem or a critical barrier to progress in the field? is the prior research that serves as the key support for the proposed project rigorous? if the aims of the project are achieved, how will scientific knowledge, technical capability, and/or clinical practice be improved? how will successful completion of the aims change the concepts, methods, technologies, treatments, services, or preventative interventions that drive this field?investigator(s)are the pd(s)/pi(s), collaborators, and other researchers well suited to the project? if early stage investigators or those in the early stages of independent careers, do they have appropriate experience and training? if established, have they demonstrated an ongoing record of accomplishments that have advanced their field(s)? if the project is collaborative or multi-pd/pi, do the investigators have complementary and integrated expertise; are their leadership approach, governance, and organizational structure appropriate for the project?innovationdoes the application challenge and seek to shift current research or clinical practice paradigms by utilizing novel theoretical concepts, approaches or methodologies, instrumentation, or interventions? are the concepts, approaches or methodologies, instrumentation, or interventions novel to one field of research or novel in a broad sense? is a refinement, improvement, or new application of theoretical concepts, approaches or methodologies, instrumentation, or interventions proposed?approachare the overall strategy, methodology, and analyses well-reasoned and appropriate to accomplish the specific aims of the project? have the investigators included plans to address weaknesses in the rigor of prior research that serves as the key support for the proposed project? have the investigators presented strategies to ensure a robust and unbiased approach, as appropriate for the work proposed? are potential problems, alternative strategies, and benchmarks for success presented? if the project is in the early stages of development, will the strategy establish feasibility and will particularly risky aspects be managed? have the investigators presented adequate plans to address relevant biological variables, such as sex, for studies in vertebrate animals or human subjects?if the project involves human subjects and/or nih-defined clinical research, are the plans to address 1) the protection of human subjects from research risks, and 2) inclusion (or exclusion) of individuals on the basis of sex/gender, race, and ethnicity, as well as the inclusion or exclusion of individuals of all ages (including children and older adults), justified in terms of the scientific goals and research strategy proposed?environmentwill the scientific environment in which the work will be done contribute to the probability of success? are the institutional support, equipment, and other physical resources available to the investigators adequate for the project proposed? will the project benefit from unique features of the scientific environment, subject populations, or collaborative arrangements?additional review criteriaas applicable for the project proposed, reviewers will evaluate the following additional items while determining scientific and technical merit, and in providing an overall impact score, but will not give separate scores for these items.protections for human subjectsfor research that involves human subjects but does not involve one of the categories of research that are exempt under 45 cfr part 46, the committee will evaluate the justification for involvement of human subjects and the proposed protections from research risk relating to their participation according to the following five review criteria: 1) risk to subjects, 2) adequacy of protection against risks, 3) potential benefits to the subjects and others, 4) importance of the knowledge to be gained, and 5) data and safety monitoring for clinical trials.for research that involves human subjects and meets the criteria for one or more of the categories of research that are exempt under 45 cfr part 46, the committee will evaluate: 1) the justification for the exemption, 2) human subjects involvement and characteristics, and 3) sources of materials. for additional information on review of the human subjects section, please refer to the guidelines for the review of human subjects.inclusion of women, minorities, and individuals across the lifespanwhen the proposed project involves human subjects and/or nih-defined clinical research, the committee will evaluate the proposed plans for the inclusion (or exclusion) of individuals on the basis of sex/gender, race, and ethnicity, as well as the inclusion (or exclusion) of individuals of all ages (including children and older adults) to determine if it is justified in terms of the scientific goals and research strategy proposed. for additional information on review of the inclusion section, please refer to the guidelines for the review of inclusion in clinical research.vertebrate animalsthe committee will evaluate the involvement of live vertebrate animals as part of the scientific assessment according to the following criteria: (1) description of proposed procedures involving animals, including species, strains, ages, sex, and total number to be used; (2) justifications for the use of animals versus alternative models and for the appropriateness of the species proposed; (3) interventions to minimize discomfort, distress, pain and injury; and (4) justification for euthanasia method if not consistent with the avma guidelines for the euthanasia of animals. reviewers will assess the use of chimpanzees as they would any other application proposing the use of vertebrate animals. for additional information on review of the vertebrate animals section, please refer to the worksheet for review of the vertebrate animal section.biohazardsreviewers will assess whether materials or procedures proposed are potentially hazardous to research personnel and/or the environment, and if needed, determine whether adequate protection is proposed.resubmissionsnot applicablerenewalsnot applicablerevisionsnot applicableas applicable for the project proposed, reviewers will consider each of the following items, but will not give scores for these items, and should not consider them in providing an overall impact score.applications from foreign organizationsreviewers will assess whether the project presents special opportunities for furthering research programs through the use of unusual talent, resources, populations, or environmental conditions that exist in other countries and either are not readily available in the united states or augment existing u.s. resources.select agent researchreviewers will assess the information provided in this section of the application, including 1) the select agent(s) to be used in the proposed research, 2) the registration status of all entities where select agent(s) will be used, 3) the procedures that will be used to monitor possession use and transfer of select agent(s), and 4) plans for appropriate biosafety, biocontainment, and security of the select agent(s).resource sharing plansnote: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023, the data sharing plan and genomic data sharing plan (gds) will not be evaluated at time of review.reviewers will comment on whether the resource sharing plan(s) (i.e., sharing model organisms) or the rationale for not sharing the resources, is reasonable.authentication of key biological and/or chemical resources:for projects involving key biological and/or chemical resources, reviewers will comment on the brief plans proposed for identifying and ensuring the validity of those resources.budget and period of supportreviewers will consider whether the budget and the requested period of support are fully justified and reasonable in relation to the proposed research.2. review and selection processapplications will be evaluated for scientific and technical merit by (an) appropriate scientific review group(s) convened by nida, in accordance with nih peer review policy and procedures, using the stated review criteria. assignment to a scientific review group will be shown in the era commons.as part of the scientific peer review, all applications will receive a written critique.applications may undergo a selection process in which only those applications deemed to have the highest scientific and technical merit (generally the top half of applications under review) will be discussed and assigned an overall impact score.appeals of initial peer review will not be accepted for applications submitted in response to this foa.applications will be assigned to the appropriate nih institute or center. applications will compete for available funds with all other recommended applications submitted in response to this foa. following initial peer review, recommended applications will receive a second level of review by the national advisory council on drug abuse. the following will be considered in making funding decisions:3. anticipated announcement and award datesafter the peer review of the application is completed, the pd/pi will be able to access his or her summary statement (written critique) via the era commons. refer to part 1 for dates for peer review, advisory council review, and earliest start date.information regarding the disposition of applications is available in the nih grants policy statement.1. award noticesif the application is under consideration for funding, nih will request "just-in-time" information from the applicant as described in the nih grants policy statement.a formal notification in the form of a notice of award (noa) will be provided to the applicant organization for successful applications. the noa signed by the grants management officer is the authorizing document and will be sent via email to the recipient's business official.recipients must comply with any funding restrictions described in section iv.5. funding restrictions. selection of an application for award is not an authorization to begin performance. any costs incurred before receipt of the noa are at the recipient's risk. these costs may be reimbursed only to the extent considered allowable pre-award costs.any application awarded in response to this foa will be subject to terms and conditions found on the award conditions and information for nih grants website. this includes any recent legislation and policy applicable to awards that is highlighted on this website.institutional review board or independent ethics committee approval: recipient institutions must ensure that protocols are reviewed by their irb or iec. to help ensure the safety of participants enrolled in nih-funded studies, the recipient must provide nih copies of documents related to all major changes in the status of ongoing protocols.2. administrative and national policy requirementsall nih grant and cooperative agreement awards include the nih grants policy statement as part of the noa. for these terms of award, see the nih grants policy statement part ii: terms and conditions of nih grant awards, subpart a: general and part ii: terms and conditions of nih grant awards, subpart b: terms and conditions for specific types of grants, recipients, and activities, including of note, but not limited to:if a recipient is successful and receives a notice of award, in accepting the award, the recipient agrees that any activities under the award are subject to all provisions currently in effect or implemented during the period of the award, other department regulations and policies in effect at the time of the award, and applicable statutory provisions.should the applicant organization successfully compete for an award, recipients of federal financial assistance (ffa) from hhs must administer their programs in compliance with federal civil rights laws that prohibit discrimination on the basis of race, color, national origin, disability, age and, in some circumstances, religion, conscience, and sex (including gender identity, sexual orientation, and pregnancy). this includes ensuring programs are accessible to persons with limited english proficiency and persons with disabilities. the hhs office for civil rights provides guidance on complying with civil rights laws enforced by hhs. please see https://www.hhs.gov/civil-rights/for-providers/provider-obligations/index.html and https://www.hhs.gov/civil-rights/for-individuals/nondiscrimination/index.htmlhhs recognizes that research projects are often limited in scope for many reasons that are nondiscriminatory, such as the principal investigator’s scientific interest, funding limitations, recruitment requirements, and other considerations. thus, criteria in research protocols that target or exclude certain populations are warranted where nondiscriminatory justifications establish that such criteria are appropriate with respect to the health or safety of the subjects, the scientific study design, or the purpose of the research. for additional guidance regarding how the provisions apply to nih grant programs, please contact the scientific/research contact that is identified in section vii under agency contacts of this foa.please contact the hhs office for civil rights for more information about obligations and prohibitions under federal civil rights laws at https://www.hhs.gov/ocr/about-us/contact-us/index.html or call 1-800-368-1019 or tdd 1-800-537-7697.in accordance with the statutory provisions contained in section 872 of the duncan hunter national defense authorization act of fiscal year 2009 (public law 110-417), nih awards will be subject to the federal awardee performance and integrity information system (fapiis) requirements. fapiis requires federal award making officials to review and consider information about an applicant in the designated integrity and performance system (currently fapiis) prior to making an award. an applicant, at its option, may review information in the designated integrity and performance systems accessible through fapiis and comment on any information about itself that a federal agency previously entered and is currently in fapiis. the federal awarding agency will consider any comments by the applicant, in addition to other information in fapiis, in making a judgement about the applicant’s integrity, business ethics, and record of performance under federal awards when completing the review of risk posed by applicants as described in 45 cfr part 75.205 and 2 cfr part 200.206 “federal awarding agency review of risk posed by applicants.” this provision will apply to all nih grants and cooperative agreements except fellowships.not applicable3. data management and sharingnote: the nih policy for data management and sharing is effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023.consistent with the nih policy for data management and sharing, when data management and sharing is applicable to the award, recipients will be required to adhere to the data management and sharing requirements as outlined in the nih grants policy statement. upon the approval of a data management and sharing plan, it is required for recipients to implement the plan as described.4. reportingwhen multiple years are involved, recipients will be required to submit the research performance progress report (rppr) annually and financial statements as required in the nih grants policy statement.a final rppr, invention statement, and the expenditure data portion of the federal financial report are required for closeout of an award, as described in the nih grants policy statement. nih foas outline intended research goals and objectives. post award, nih will review and measure performance based on the details and outcomes that are shared within the rppr, as described at 45 cfr part 75.301 and 2 cfr part 200.301.the federal funding accountability and transparency act of 2006 (transparency act), includes a requirement for recipients of federal grants to report information about first-tier subawards and executive compensation under federal assistance awards issued in fy2011 or later. all recipients of applicable nih grants and cooperative agreements are required to report to the federal subaward reporting system (fsrs) available at www.fsrs.gov on all subawards over $25,000. see the nih grants policy statement for additional information on this reporting requirement.in accordance with the regulatory requirements provided at 45 cfr 75.113 and appendix xii to 45 cfr part 75, recipients that have currently active federal grants, cooperative agreements, and procurement contracts from all federal awarding agencies with a cumulative total value greater than $10,000,000 for any period of time during the period of performance of a federal award, must report and maintain the currency of information reported in the system for award management (sam) about civil, criminal, and administrative proceedings in connection with the award or performance of a federal award that reached final disposition within the most recent five-year period. the recipient must also make semiannual disclosures regarding such proceedings. proceedings information will be made publicly available in the designated integrity and performance system (currently fapiis). this is a statutory requirement under section 872 of public law 110-417, as amended (41 u.s.c. 2313). as required by section 3010 of public law 111-212, all information posted in the designated integrity and performance system on or after april 15, 2011, except past performance reviews required for federal procurement contracts, will be publicly available. full reporting requirements and procedures are found in appendix xii to 45 cfr part 75 – award term and conditions for recipient integrity and performance matters.we encourage inquiries concerning this funding opportunity and welcome the opportunity to answer questions from potential applicants.era service desk (questions regarding assist, era commons, application errors and warnings, documenting system problems that threaten submission by the due date, and post-submission issues)finding help online: https://www.era.nih.gov/need-help (preferred method of contact) telephone: 301-402-7469 or 866-504-9552 (toll free)general grants information (questions regarding application instructions, application processes, and nih grant resources) email: grantsinfo@nih.gov (preferred method of contact) telephone: 301-637-3015grants.gov customer support (questions regarding grants.gov registration and workspace) contact center telephone: 800-518-4726 email: support@grants.govsam ananthan, ph.d.national institute on drug abuse (nida)telephone: 301-435-2199email: sam.ananthan@nih.govdharmendar rathore, phdnational institute on drug abuse (nida)telephone: 301-402-6965email: dharmendar.rathore@nih.govkwesi wright national institute on drug abuse (nida) telephone: 301-451-0617 email: kwesi.wright@nih.govrecently issued trans-nih policy notices may affect your application submission. a full list of policy notices published by nih is provided in the nih guide for grants and contracts. all awards are subject to the terms and conditions, cost principles, and other considerations described in the nih grants policy statement.awards are made under the authorization of sections 301 and 405 of the public health service act as amended (42 usc 241 and 284) and under federal regulations 42 cfr part 52 and 45 cfr part 75.weekly toc for this announcement nih funding opportunities and noticesnote: for help accessing pdf, rtf, ms word, excel, powerpoint, audio or video files, see help downloading files.