Programs for Inclusion and Diversity Among Individuals Engaged in Health-Related Research (PRIDE) Coordination Center (U24 Clinical Trial Not Allowed)
https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/rfa-files/RFA-HL-24-003.html
national institutes of health (nih)national heart, lung, and blood institute (nhlbi)u24 resource-related research projects – cooperative agreementsnot-hl-23-073 - notice of correction to number of applications for rfa-hl-24-003 and rfa-hl-24-004 "programs for inclusion and diversity among individuals engaged in health-related research (pride) (u24 and r25)"not-od-22-195 - new nih "forms-h" grant application forms and instructions coming for due dates on or after january 25, 2023not-od-22-189 - implementation details for the nih data management and sharing policynot-od-22-198 - implementation changes for genomic data sharing plans included with applications due on or after january 25, 2023not-hl-22-039- notice of special interest (nosi): administrative supplements to support programs for inclusion and diversity among individuals engaged in health-related research (pride) small research projects (srps)not-od-23-012 - reminder: forms-h grant application forms & instructions must be used for due dates on or after january 25, 2023 - new grant application instructions now availableonly one application per institution is allowed, as defined in section iii. 3. additional information on eligibility.this funding opportunity announcement (foa) solicits a single five-year grant application from eligible institutions/organizations to serve as the coordination center (cc) for the programs for inclusion and diversity among individuals engaged in health-related research (pride) summer institutes (sis). this foa runs in parallel with a separate foa that solicits applications for the pride sis (described in detail in rfa-hl-24-004). pride sis are designed to provide research education experiences that enable junior faculty and transitioning postdoctoral scientists from diverse backgrounds, including those from groups that are underrepresented in the biomedical sciences (see, e.g., not-od-20-031) to further develop their research skills and knowledge to become competitive nih grants applicants and scientists.the purpose of the cc is to provide programmatic support for the pride program overall and to complement the activities of the si programs as follows:in addition, the cc also plans, arranges, and facilitates the program-wide pride annual meetings, the monthly steering committee meetings, and other pd(s)/pi(s) meetings for the program overall as needed. to be competitive for review, applicants should provide strong evidence of expertise in program administration, program coordination and program evaluation.30 days prior to the application due dateall applications are due by 5:00 pm local time of applicant organization.applicants are encouraged to apply early to allow adequate time to make any corrections to errors found in the application during the submission process by the due date.no late applications will be accepted for this funding opportunity announcement.not applicableit is critical that applicants follow the instructions in the research (r) instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, except where instructed to do otherwise (in this foa or in a notice from nih guide for grants and contracts).conformance to all requirements (both in the application guide and the foa) is required and strictly enforced. applicants must read and follow all application instructions in the application guide as well as any program-specific instructions noted in section iv. when the program-specific instructions deviate from those in the application guide, follow the program-specific instructions.applications that do not comply with these instructions may be delayed or not accepted for review..purpose and description of the programthe overarching goal of the nhlbi pride program is to support educational activities that enhance the diversity of the biomedical, behavioral and clinical research workforce through summer institute (si) programs.the major goal of the pride program is to establish long-term mentoring that will enable junior faculty and transitioning postdoctoral scientists from diverse backgrounds, including those from groups that are underrepresented in the biomedical sciences (see, e.g., not-od-20-031), to develop a research program and obtain nih funding. the goal is that through these experiences participants will further develop their research skills and gain experiences in advanced methods and experimental approaches in basic and applied sciences that are relevant to nhlbi mission areas. these include the prevention and treatment of heart, lung, blood, and sleep (hlbs) disorders. ultimately, participants in the pride programs will use these enhanced skills to apply for nih grants in the areas relevant to the of nhlbi mission. it should be noted that the terms "participants" and "mentees" are used interchangeably in this foa.the goal of this funding opportunity announcement (foa) is to support the creation of a coordination center (cc) for the programs for inclusion and diversity among individuals engaged in health-related research (pride) summer institutes (si). the pride cc will support and complement the activities of the sis as they foster the development of a diverse workforce to meet the nation's biomedical, behavioral, and clinical research needs. the si grantees will develop their pride si programs (as detailed in the companion foa rfa-hl-24-004) during the last quarter of 2023 and early part of 2024, and implement them during the summers of 2024, 2025, 2026, 2027, and 2028 with appropriate modifications or refinements following each of the preceding years. the primary tasks of the cc will be to facilitate, coordinate and support execution of research education activities between the si awardees and mentees, and to conduct ongoing evaluation of the program as per nih requirements. as such, the pd(s)/pi(s) applicants of the cc team should exhibit strong expertise in both program evaluation and program coordination.the cc's role is also to facilitate candidate recruitment and selection, program-wide organization, and mentor identification and orientation. additionally, the cc will also plan, arrange, and facilitate the pride annual meetings, monthly steering committee meetings, and other pd/pi meetings for the pride program overall.specific activities and roles of the pride cc will include, but are not limited to:outreach and recruitmentprogram-wide communicationsfacilitate recruitment of mentorsresearch education development activitiesevaluationapplications must contain the following to be considered responsive to this foa. non-responsive applications will not proceed to review.see section viii. other information for award authorities and regulations.cooperative agreement: a support mechanism used when there will be substantial federal scientific or programmatic involvement. substantial involvement means that, after award, nih scientific or program staff will assist, guide, coordinate, or participate in project activities. see section vi.2 for additional information about the substantial involvement for this foa.the oer glossary and the sf424 (r&r) application guide provide details on these application types. only those application types listed here are allowed for this foa.not allowed: only accepting applications that do not propose clinical trials.need help determining whether you are doing a clinical trial?nhlbi intends to commit total costs of up to $546,000 per year in fiscal year 2024 to fund one new award.application budgets must not exceed direct costs of $350,000 per year.the maximum project period is 5 years.nih grants policies as described in the nih grants policy statement will apply to the applications submitted and awards made from this foa.1. eligible applicantshigher education institutionsthe following types of higher education institutions are always encouraged to apply for nih support as public or private institutions of higher education:nonprofits other than institutions of higher educationfor-profit organizationsfederal governmentothernon-domestic (non-u.s.) entities (foreign institutions) are not eligible to apply.non-domestic (non-u.s.) components of u.s. organizations are not eligible to apply.foreign components, as defined in the nih grants policy statement, are not allowed.applicant organizationsapplicant organizations must complete and maintain the following registrations as described in the sf 424 (r&r) application guide to be eligible to apply for or receive an award. all registrations must be completed prior to the application being submitted. registration can take 6 weeks or more, so applicants should begin the registration process as soon as possible. the nih policy on late submission of grant applications states that failure to complete registrations in advance of a due date is not a valid reason for a late submission.program directors/principal investigators (pd(s)/pi(s))all pd(s)/pi(s) must have an era commons account. pd(s)/pi(s) should work with their organizational officials to either create a new account or to affiliate their existing account with the applicant organization in era commons. if the pd/pi is also the organizational signing official, they must have two distinct era commons accounts, one for each role. obtaining an era commons account can take up to 2 weeks.any individual(s) with the skills, knowledge, and resources necessary to carry out the proposed research as the program director(s)/principal investigator(s) (pd(s)/pi(s)) is invited to work with his/her organization to develop an application for support. individuals from diverse backgrounds, including underrepresented racial and ethnic groups, individuals with disabilities, and women are always encouraged to apply for nih support. see, reminder: notice of nih's encouragement of applications supporting individuals from underrepresented ethnic and racial groups as well as individuals with disabilities, not-od-22-019.for institutions/organizations proposing multiple pds/pis, visit the multiple program director/principal investigator policy and submission details in the senior/key person profile (expanded) component of the sf424 (r&r) application guide.2. cost sharingthis foa does not require cost sharing as defined in the nih grants policy statement.3. additional information on eligibilitynumber of applicationsonly one application per institution (normally identified by having a unique uei or nih ipf number) is allowed.only one application per institution (normally identified by having a unique uei or nih ipf number) is allowed. applicant organizations may submit more than one application, provided that each application is scientifically distinct.institutions may apply for both the summer institute (rfa-hl-24-004) and cc components of this program. however, the pd(s)/pi(s) for the cc must not be the same pd(s)/pi(s) for the summer institute application.1. requesting an application packagethe application forms package specific to this opportunity must be accessed through assist, grants.gov workspace or an institutional system-to-system solution. links to apply using assist or grants.gov workspace are available in part 1 of this foa. see your administrative office for instructions if you plan to use an institutional system-to-system solution.2. content and form of application submissionit is critical that applicants follow the instructions in the research (r) instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide except where instructed in this funding opportunity announcement to do otherwise. conformance to the requirements in the application guide is required and strictly enforced. applications that are out of compliance with these instructions may be delayed or not accepted for review.for information on application submission and receipt, visit frequently asked questions – application guide, electronic submission of grant applications.letter of intentalthough a letter of intent is not required, is not binding, and does not enter into the review of a subsequent application, the information that it contains allows ic staff to estimate the potential review workload and plan the review.by the date listed in part 1. overview information, prospective applicants are asked to submit a letter of intent that includes the following information:the letter of intent should be sent to:director, office of scientific review division of extramural research activities national heart, lung, and blood institute national institutes of health telephone: 301-435-0270 email: nhlbichiefreviewbranch@nhlbi.nih.govall page limitations described in the sf424 application guide and the table of page limits must be followed.the following section supplements the instructions found in the sf424 (r&r) application guide and should be used for preparing an application to this foa.note: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023, the data management and sharing plan will be attached in the other plan(s) attachment in forms-h application forms packages.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed, with the following additional instructions:other attachments:1. progress of previous pride program participants (required for renewal applications only)if applicable, progress of previous pride program participants must be provided as an attachment called "previous pride participants.pdf" and may not exceed 3 pages.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed, with the following additional instructions:the application must consist of a pd(s)/pi(s) and key personnel (not just other significant contributors) with strong evaluation expertise and program coordination/administration skills. it is highly encouraged that the evaluation and coordination experts be separate individuals. a program coordinator and other key persons (such as those involved in developing, implementing, directing, monitoring, and evaluating) who are integral to participating in the program may also be assigned as key personnel.r&r budgetall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed, with the following additional instructions:requested expenses must be itemized. include all allowable categories of funds requested to support program participants in the budget. provide detailed justification for each category for which funds are requested. refer to section ii for clarification on allowable categories of the budget.r&r subaward budgetall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed, with the following additional instructions:research strategythe following items are critical review elements and should be addressed concisely and satisfactorily by the applicant. applicants should describe how team members' expertise and experiences are synergistic and support the cc's proposed program goals. applicants must not duplicate information on the biographical sketch.leadership and performance experience for each member of the cc team that facilitates synergycoordination functionsability to manage data and communicationsacademic and management capabilitiesstaffing expertise and capabilitiesevidence of communication capabilitiesevidence of expertise in evaluating education/training or research programsevaluationrfa-hl-10-019, rfa-hl-10-028, rfa-hl-14-021, rfa-hl-14-022, rfa-hl-19-001, rfa-hl-19-002 (https://pridecc.wustl.edu/about/history) to assess their success in obtaining external funding, in publishing their research in peer-reviewed journals, and in career progression. this proposed plan must describe the organization and operation of concurrent follow-up of the previous si programs (fy2010-2014; fy2015-2018; fy2019-2023), and the fy2024-2028 program and must specifically describe how the applicant will use data from previous programs to conduct program evaluation and to assess program's aims. this proposed plan should also describe contents of an annual report on new and former mentees whose information will be assessed.letters of supportapplicants must demonstrate departmental and/or institutional commitment to participate in research education and must provide letters of support from appropriate individuals. appropriate institutional commitment should include the provision of adequate staff, facilities, and educational resources, including evidence of previous education support, to contribute to the planned research education program. the letter of support must also indicate the plan for secure transfer of data, information technology needs, research oversight, and any considerations regarding subcontracting (i.e., commitment of facilities as appropriate, institutional acceptance to provide scientific oversight, etc.).resource sharing plan:individuals are required to comply with the instructions for the resource sharing plans as provided in the sf424 (r& r ) application guide.other plan(s):note: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023, the data management and sharing plan will be attached in the other plan(s) attachment in forms-h application forms packages.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed, with the following additional instructions:when involving human subjects research, clinical research, and/or nih-defined clinical trials (and when applicable, clinical trials research experience) follow all instructions for the phs human subjects and clinical trials information form in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, with the following additional instructions:if you answered “yes” to the question “are human subjects involved?” on the r&r other project information form, you must include at least one human subjects study record using the study record: phs human subjects and clinical trials information form or delayed onset study record.study record: phs human subjects and clinical trials informationall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.delayed onset studynote: delayed onset does not apply to a study that can be described but will not start immediately (i.e., delayed start).all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.3. unique entity identifier and system for award management (sam)see part 1. section iii.1 for information regarding the requirement for obtaining a unique entity identifier and for completing and maintaining active registrations in system for award management (sam), nato commercial and government entity (ncage) code (if applicable), era commons, and grants.gov.part i. overview information contains information about key dates and times. applicants are encouraged to submit applications before the due date to ensure they have time to make any application corrections that might be necessary for successful submission. when a submission date falls on a weekend or federal holiday, the application deadline is automatically extended to the next business day.organizations must submit applications to grants.gov (the online portal to find and apply for grants across all federal agencies). applicants must then complete the submission process by tracking the status of the application in the era commons, nih’s electronic system for grants administration. nih and grants.gov systems check the application against many of the application instructions upon submission. errors must be corrected and a changed/corrected application must be submitted to grants.gov on or before the application due date and time. if a changed/corrected application is submitted after the deadline, the application will be considered late. applications that miss the due date and time are subjected to the nih policy on late application submission.applicants are responsible for viewing their application before the due date in the era commons to ensure accurate and successful submission.information on the submission process and a definition of on-time submission are provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.5. intergovernmental review (e.o. 12372)this initiative is not subject to intergovernmental review.all nih awards are subject to the terms and conditions, cost principles, and other considerations described in the nih grants policy statement.pre-award costs are allowable only as described in the nih grants policy statement.applications must be submitted electronically following the instructions described in the sf424 (r&r) application guide. paper applications will not be accepted.applicants must complete all required registrations before the application due date. section iii. eligibility information contains information about registration.for assistance with your electronic application or for more information on the electronic submission process, visit how to apply – application guide. if you encounter a system issue beyond your control that threatens your ability to complete the submission process on-time, you must follow the dealing with system issues guidance. for assistance with application submission, contact the application submission contacts in section vii.important reminders:all pd(s)/pi(s) must include their era commons id in the credential field of the senior/key person profile form. failure to register in the commons and to include a valid pd/pi commons id in the credential field will prevent the successful submission of an electronic application to nih. see section iii of this foa for information on registration requirements.the applicant organization must ensure that the unique entity identifier provided on the application is the same identifier used in the organization’s profile in the era commons and for the system for award management. additional information may be found in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.see more tips for avoiding common errors.upon receipt, applications will be evaluated for completeness and compliance with application instructions by the center for scientific review and responsiveness by nhlbi, nih. applications that are incomplete, non-compliant and/or nonresponsive will not be reviewed.applicants are required to follow the instructions for post-submission materials, as described in the policy1. criteriaonly the review criteria described below will be considered in the review process. applications submitted to the nih in support of the nih mission are evaluated for scientific and technical merit through the nih peer review system.note: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023, the data sharing plan and genomic data sharing plan (gds) will not be evaluated at time of review.overall impactreviewers will provide an overall impact score to reflect their assessment of the likelihood for the project to exert a sustained, powerful influence on the research field(s) involved, in consideration of the following review criteria and additional review criteria (as applicable for the project proposed).scored review criteriareviewers will consider each of the review criteria below in the determination of scientific merit and give a separate score for each. an application does not need to be strong in all categories to be judged likely to have major scientific impact. for example, a project that by its nature is not innovative may be essential to advance a field.significancedoes the proposed center address the needs of the research education program (pride) that it will coordinate and serve? is the scope of activities proposed for the center appropriate to meet those needs? will successful completion of the aims bring unique advantages or capabilities to the research education program (pride)?specific to this foa:is there convincing evidence in the application that the proposed program will significantly advance the stated goals of pride? is the scope of activities proposed by the center appropriate to meet those needs? will successful completion of the aims bring unique advantages or capabilities to the research education program and to the nhlbi overall?investigator(s)are the pd(s)/pi(s) and other personnel well suited to their roles in the center? do they have appropriate experience and training, and have they demonstrated experience and an ongoing record of accomplishments in managing research education programs? do the investigators demonstrate significant experience with coordinating collaborative research education activities?if the center is multi-pd/pi, does the team of investigators have complementary and integrated expertise and skills; are their leadership approaches, governance, plans for conflict resolution, and organizational structure appropriate for the center? does the applicant have experience overseeing selection and management of subawards, if needed?specific to this foa:do the pd(s)/pi(s) collaborators demonstrate experience and an ongoing record of accomplishments in managing research education projects? do the investigators demonstrate significant experience with coordinating collaborative research education projects? does the pd(s)/pi(s) team demonstrate appropriate training and expertise, and evidence of an ongoing record of accomplishments in coordinating and administering large, collaborative networks, implementing common metrics for the evaluation of large and complex research education programs, coordinating data and analyses, and communicating and messaging to stakeholders? does the project team have appropriate experience with fulfilling the mission of the pride program, including the proper scientific background, experience with the administrative management of large research-education projects or consortium activities, experience with databases, web portal design and curation, dissemination of various resources and information to stakeholders and to the broader scientific community, planning and successfully executing large-scale meetings, the development and implementation of metrics for large initiatives, and research-education program evaluation? do the pd(s)/pi(s) collaborators demonstrate experience and an ongoing record of accomplishments in managing programs that support the enhancement of diversity of the biomedical, behavioral and clinical research workforce?innovationdoes the application propose novel organizational concepts, management strategies, and/or instrumentation in coordinating the research education program the center will serve? are the concepts, strategies, or instrumentation novel to one type of research program or applicable in a broad sense? is a refinement, improvement, or new application of organizational concepts, management strategies or instrumentation proposed?specific to this foa:taking into consideration the nature of the proposed research education program, does the applicant make a strong case for this program effectively reaching an audience in need of the program's offerings? does the application propose novel management strategies for coordinating the pride program? how innovative are the proposed team structure/interactions, strategies, and tools compared to standard project coordination/management, and data capture and sharing approaches?approachare the overall strategy, operational plan, and organizational structure well-reasoned and appropriate to accomplish the goals of the research program the center will serve? will the investigators promote strategies to ensure a robust and unbiased scientific approach across the program, as appropriate for the work proposed? are potential problems, alternative strategies, and benchmarks for success presented? if the program is in the early stages of operation, does the proposed strategy adequately establish feasibility and manage the risks associated with the activities of the program? are an appropriate plan for work-flow and a well-established timeline proposed? if applicable, have the investigators presented adequate plans to ensure consideration of relevant biological variables, such as sex, for studies of vertebrate animals or human subjects? if the project involves human subjects and/or nih-defined clinical research, are the plans to address 1) the protection of human subjects from research risks, and 2) inclusion (or exclusion) of individuals on the basis of sex/gender, race, and ethnicity, as well as the inclusion or exclusion of children, justified in terms of the scientific goals and research strategy proposed?if the project involves human subjects and/or nih-defined clinical research, are the plans to address 1) the protection of human subjects from research risks, and 2) inclusion (or exclusion) of individuals on the basis of sex/gender, race, and ethnicity, as well as the inclusion or exclusion of individuals of all ages (including children and older adults), justified in terms of the scientific goals and research strategy proposed?specific to this foa:is the proposed approach for the overall program management as well as for managing the research education activities feasible and appropriate to achieve the stated cc's program goals? are the recruitment, retention, and follow-up activities adequate to ensure a highly qualified and diverse participant pool? does the application contain an adequate description of plans for facilitating the provision of appropriate mentoring experiences for mentees? does the application contain an adequate description of plans for effective program administration and coordination among faculty/mentors? does the application contain an adequate description of plans and methods for outreach, selection, and retention of candidates from diverse backgrounds? is the proposed plan for promoting collaboration across the si sites adequate? is there evidence that the outreach proposed will be sufficient to achieve the goals for establishing partnerships with other institutions/agencies and mentors for mentorship committees? does the proposed approach show support for and assistance to the development of an evaluation protocols and common evaluation measures (constructs and instruments) ? does the proposed cc have adequate capability to utilize electronic technology to meet the coordination goals? does the proposed cc demonstrate adequate capacity and ability to manage data and communications and the ability to coordinate the academic/research training objectives? if applicable, how strongly does the previous pride participants information demonstrate mentees' productivity in previous pride cohorts?environmentwill the institutional environment in which the center will operate contribute to the probability of success in facilitating the research program it serves? are the institutional support, equipment and other physical resources available to the investigators adequate for the center proposed? will the center benefit from unique features of the institutional environment, infrastructure, or personnel? are resources available within the scientific environment to support electronic information handling?specific to this foa:will the scientific and educational environment of the proposed cc contribute to its intended goals? is there a plan to take advantage of this environment to enhance the educational value of the program? is there tangible evidence of institutional commitment? is there evidence that the faculty have sufficient institutional support to create a sound cc that will facilitate the goals of the pride program for the participants? where appropriate, is there evidence of collaboration and buy-in among participating programs, departments, and institution?additional review criteriaas applicable for the project proposed, reviewers will evaluate the following additional items while determining scientific and technical merit, and in providing an overall impact score, but will not give separate scores for these items.protections for human subjectsfor research that involves human subjects but does not involve one of the categories of research that are exempt under 45 cfr part 46, the committee will evaluate the justification for involvement of human subjects and the proposed protections from research risk relating to their participation according to the following five review criteria: 1) risk to subjects, 2) adequacy of protection against risks, 3) potential benefits to the subjects and others, 4) importance of the knowledge to be gained, and 5) data and safety monitoring for clinical trials.for research that involves human subjects and meets the criteria for one or more of the categories of research that are exempt under 45 cfr part 46, the committee will evaluate: 1) the justification for the exemption, 2) human subjects involvement and characteristics, and 3) sources of materials. for additional information on review of the human subjects section, please refer to the guidelines for the review of human subjects.inclusion of women, minorities, and individuals across the lifespanwhen the proposed project involves human subjects and/or nih-defined clinical research, the committee will evaluate the proposed plans for the inclusion (or exclusion) of individuals on the basis of sex/gender, race, and ethnicity, as well as the inclusion (or exclusion) of individuals of all ages (including children and older adults) to determine if it is justified in terms of the scientific goals and research strategy proposed. for additional information on review of the inclusion section, please refer to the guidelines for the review of inclusion in clinical research.vertebrate animalsthe committee will evaluate the involvement of live vertebrate animals as part of the scientific assessment according to the following criteria: (1) description of proposed procedures involving animals, including species, strains, ages, sex, and total number to be used; (2) justifications for the use of animals versus alternative models and for the appropriateness of the species proposed; (3) interventions to minimize discomfort, distress, pain and injury; and (4) justification for euthanasia method if not consistent with the avma guidelines for the euthanasia of animals. reviewers will assess the use of chimpanzees as they would any other application proposing the use of vertebrate animals. for additional information on review of the vertebrate animals section, please refer to the worksheet for review of the vertebrate animal section.biohazardsreviewers will assess whether materials or procedures proposed are potentially hazardous to research personnel and/or the environment, and if needed, determine whether adequate protection is proposed.resubmissionsnot applicablerenewalsfor renewals, the committee will consider the progress made in the last funding period including progress of past pride participants or cohorts trained; and the adequacy and appropriateness of the evaluation methods/materials used for assessing the program's goals and participants' outcomes.revisionsfor revisions, the committee will consider the appropriateness of the proposed expansion of the scope of the project. if the revision application relates to a specific line of investigation presented in the original application that was not recommended for approval by the committee, then the committee will consider whether the responses to comments from the previous scientific review group are adequate and whether substantial changes are clearly evident.as applicable for the project proposed, reviewers will consider each of the following items, but will not give scores for these items, and should not consider them in providing an overall impact score.applications from foreign organizationsnot applicable.select agent researchreviewers will assess the information provided in this section of the application, including 1) the select agent(s) to be used in the proposed research, 2) the registration status of all entities where select agent(s) will be used, 3) the procedures that will be used to monitor possession use and transfer of select agent(s), and 4) plans for appropriate biosafety, biocontainment, and security of the select agent(s).resource sharing plansnote: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023, the data sharing plan and genomic data sharing plan (gds) will not be evaluated at time of review.reviewers will comment on whether the resource sharing plan(s) (i.e., sharing model organisms) or the rationale for not sharing the resources, is reasonable.authentication of key biological and/or chemical resources:for [programs/projects/networks/consortia/resources] involving key biological and/or chemical resources, reviewers will comment on the brief plans proposed for identifying and ensuring the validity of those resources.budget and period of supportreviewers will consider whether the budget and the requested period of support are fully justified and reasonable in relation to the proposed research.2. review and selection processapplications will be evaluated for scientific and technical merit by (an) appropriate scientific review group(s) convened by the nhlbi office of scientific review, in accordance with nih peer review policy and procedures, using the stated review criteria. assignment to a scientific review group will be shown in the era commons.as part of the scientific peer review, all applications will receive a written critique.applications may undergo a selection process in which only those applications deemed to have the highest scientific and technical merit (generally the top half of applications under review) will be discussed and assigned an overall impact score.appeals of initial peer review will not be accepted for applications submitted in response to this foa.applications will be assigned on the basis of established phs referral guidelines to the appropriate nih institute or center. applications will compete for available funds with all other recommended applications submitted in response to this foa. following initial peer review, recommended applications will receive a second level of review by the national heart, lung, and blood advisory council. the following will be considered in making funding decisions:3. anticipated announcement and award datesafter the peer review of the application is completed, the pd/pi will be able to access his or her summary statement (written critique) via the era commons. refer to part 1 for dates for peer review, advisory council review, and earliest start date.information regarding the disposition of applications is available in the nih grants policy statement.1. award noticesif the application is under consideration for funding, nih will request "just-in-time" information from the applicant as described in the nih grants policy statement.a formal notification in the form of a notice of award (noa) will be provided to the applicant organization for successful applications. the noa signed by the grants management officer is the authorizing document and will be sent via email to the recipient's business official.recipients must comply with any funding restrictions described in section iv.5. funding restrictions. selection of an application for award is not an authorization to begin performance. any costs incurred before receipt of the noa are at the recipient's risk. these costs may be reimbursed only to the extent considered allowable pre-award costs.any application awarded in response to this foa will be subject to terms and conditions found on the award conditions and information for nih grants website. this includes any recent legislation and policy applicable to awards that is highlighted on this website.institutional review board or independent ethics committee approval: recipient institutions must ensure that protocols are reviewed by their irb or iec. to help ensure the safety of participants enrolled in nih-funded studies, the recipient must provide nih copies of documents related to all major changes in the status of ongoing protocols.2. administrative and national policy requirementsall nih grant and cooperative agreement awards include the nih grants policy statement as part of the noa. for these terms of award, see the nih grants policy statement part ii: terms and conditions of nih grant awards, subpart a: general and part ii: terms and conditions of nih grant awards, subpart b: terms and conditions for specific types of grants, recipients, and activities, including of note, but not limited to:if a recipient is successful and receives a notice of award, in accepting the award, the recipient agrees that any activities under the award are subject to all provisions currently in effect or implemented during the period of the award, other department regulations and policies in effect at the time of the award, and applicable statutory provisions.should the applicant organization successfully compete for an award, recipients of federal financial assistance (ffa) from hhs will be required to complete an hhs assurance of compliance form (hhs 690) in which the recipient agrees, as a term and condition of receiving the grant, to administer their programs in compliance with federal civil rights laws that prohibit discrimination on the basis of race, color, national origin, age, sex and disability, and agreeing to comply with federal conscience laws, where applicable. this includes ensuring that entities take meaningful steps to provide meaningful access to persons with limited english proficiency; and ensuring effective communication with persons with disabilities. where applicable, title xi and section 1557 prohibit discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation, and gender identity. the hhs office for civil rights provides guidance on complying with civil rights laws enforced by hhs. please see https://www.hhs.gov/civil-rights/for-providers/provider-obligations/index.html and https://www.hhs.gov/civil-rights/for-individuals/nondiscrimination/index.htmlhhs recognizes that research projects are often limited in scope for many reasons that are nondiscriminatory, such as the principal investigator’s scientific interest, funding limitations, recruitment requirements, and other considerations. thus, criteria in research protocols that target or exclude certain populations are warranted where nondiscriminatory justifications establish that such criteria are appropriate with respect to the health or safety of the subjects, the scientific study design, or the purpose of the research. for additional guidance regarding how the provisions apply to nih grant programs, please contact the scientific/research contact that is identified in section vii under agency contacts of this foa.please contact the hhs office for civil rights for more information about obligations and prohibitions under federal civil rights laws at https://www.hhs.gov/ocr/about-us/contact-us/index.html or call 1-800-368-1019 or tdd 1-800-537-7697.in accordance with the statutory provisions contained in section 872 of the duncan hunter national defense authorization act of fiscal year 2009 (public law 110-417), nih awards will be subject to the federal awardee performance and integrity information system (fapiis) requirements. fapiis requires federal award making officials to review and consider information about an applicant in the designated integrity and performance system (currently fapiis) prior to making an award. an applicant, at its option, may review information in the designated integrity and performance systems accessible through fapiis and comment on any information about itself that a federal agency previously entered and is currently in fapiis. the federal awarding agency will consider any comments by the applicant, in addition to other information in fapiis, in making a judgement about the applicant’s integrity, business ethics, and record of performance under federal awards when completing the review of risk posed by applicants as described in 45 cfr part 75.205 and 2 cfr part 200.206 “federal awarding agency review of risk posed by applicants.” this provision will apply to all nih grants and cooperative agreements except fellowships.these special terms of award are in addition to and not in lieu of otherwise applicable omb administrative guidelines, hhs grant administration regulations at 45 cfr part 74, and other hhs, phs, and nih grant administration policy statements.the cooperative agreement is an award instrument establishing an assistance relationship in contrast to an acquisition relationship between nhlbi and a recipient, in which substantial nhlbi scientific and/or programmatic involvement with the recipient is anticipated during performance of the activity. the purpose of nhlbi involvement is to support and/or stimulate the recipient's activity by involvement in and otherwise working jointly with the award recipient in a partner role, but it is not to assume direction, prime responsibility, or a dominant role in the activity. consistent with this concept, the dominant role and prime responsibility for the activity resides with the recipient(s) for the project as a whole, in discussion with nhlbi staff. the terms and conditions below elaborate on these actions and responsibilities, and the recipient agrees to these collaborative actions with the nhlbi project scientist to achieve the study objectives. it is anticipated that these terms and conditions will enhance the relationship between the nhlbi staff and the principal investigator(s), and will facilitate the successful conduct and completion of the pride initiative. these agreements will be in addition to, and not in lieu of, the relevant nih procedures for grants administration. the terms will be as follows:the pd(s)/pi(s) will have the primary responsibility for:program governancerecipient(s) agree to the governance of the study through an executive committee composed of the cc's principal investigator(s) and nhlbi staff; and to a steering committee consisting of at least one voting representative each from the si, the cc and the nhlbi. meetings of the executive committee will be held by conference call or in the metropolitan washington, dc area. meetings of the si will be held monthly by telephone and annually in-person in the metropolitan washington, dc area.the recipient(s) will have primary and lead responsibilities for the project as listed in section i.the pd(s)/pi(s) also assume(s) responsibility and accountability to the applicant organization officials and to the nhlbi for the performance and proper conduct of the project supported by the u24 award in accordance with these terms and conditions of the award. as such, the awardee pd(s)/pi(s) will be responsible for all coordinating, administrative and evaluating aspects of the program, as well as any modification(s) agreed upon by the executive committee, unless otherwise provided for in these terms or by action of the steering committee.specific responsibilities include:nih staff have substantial programmatic involvement that is above and beyond the normal stewardship role in awards, as described below:nhlbi staff (project office team) will serve on the executive and steering committees, monitor compliance with recruitment, and provide technical assistance on issues regarding participant enrollment. nhlbi staff cannot make decisions on eligibility of mentees.the nhlbi reserves the right to phase-out or curtail the study (or an individual award) in the event of (a) failure to develop or implement a mutually agreeable protocol in a timely manner, (b) substantial shortfall in subject recruitment and inadequate screening of eligible applicants, (c) problems with data capture and data reporting, quality control in a timely manner, (d) substantive changes in the agreed-upon protocol with which nhlbi cannot concur, (d) human subject ethical issues that may dictate a premature termination, or (e) results that substantially diminish the scientific value of cc's continuation. post award monitoring of the srps would be jointly managed with the nhlbi and the si programs' institutions with the above listed terms and conditions applicable.areas of joint responsibilitythe cc and the nhlbi program office will work jointly to:dispute resolutionany disagreement that may arise in scientific or programmatic matters (within the scope of the award) between award recipients and the nhlbi may be brought to arbitration. an arbitration panel will be composed of three members: one selected by the executive committee (with the nhlbi member not voting) or by the individual recipient in the event of an individual disagreement, a second member selected by nhlbi, and the third member selected by the two selected members. this special arbitration procedure in no way affects the recipient's right to appeal an adverse action that is otherwise appealable in accordance with the phs regulations at 42 cfr part 50, subpart d and hhs regulation at 45 cfr part 16, or the rights of nhlbi under applicable statutes, regulations and terms of the award.3. data management and sharingnote: the nih policy for data management and sharing is effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023.consistent with the nih policy for data management and sharing, when data management and sharing is applicable to the award, recipients will be required to adhere to the data management and sharing requirements as outlined in the nih grants policy statement. upon the approval of a data management and sharing plan, it is required for recipients to implement the plan as described.4. reportingwhen multiple years are involved, recipients will be required to submit the research performance progress report (rppr) annually and financial statements as required in the nih grants policy statement.a final rppr, invention statement, and the expenditure data portion of the federal financial report are required for closeout of an award, as described in the nih grants policy statement. nih foas outline intended research goals and objectives. post award, nih will review and measure performance based on the details and outcomes that are shared within the rppr, as described at 45 cfr part 75.301 and 2 cfr part 200.301.the federal funding accountability and transparency act of 2006 (transparency act), includes a requirement for recipients of federal grants to report information about first-tier subawards and executive compensation under federal assistance awards issued in fy2011 or later. all recipients of applicable nih grants and cooperative agreements are required to report to the federal subaward reporting system (fsrs) available at www.fsrs.gov on all subawards over $25,000. see the nih grants policy statement for additional information on this reporting requirement.in accordance with the regulatory requirements provided at 45 cfr 75.113 and appendix xii to 45 cfr part 75, recipients that have currently active federal grants, cooperative agreements, and procurement contracts from all federal awarding agencies with a cumulative total value greater than $10,000,000 for any period of time during the period of performance of a federal award, must report and maintain the currency of information reported in the system for award management (sam) about civil, criminal, and administrative proceedings in connection with the award or performance of a federal award that reached final disposition within the most recent five-year period. the recipient must also make semiannual disclosures regarding such proceedings. proceedings information will be made publicly available in the designated integrity and performance system (currently fapiis). this is a statutory requirement under section 872 of public law 110-417, as amended (41 u.s.c. 2313). as required by section 3010 of public law 111-212, all information posted in the designated integrity and performance system on or after april 15, 2011, except past performance reviews required for federal procurement contracts, will be publicly available. full reporting requirements and procedures are found in appendix xii to 45 cfr part 75 – award term and conditions for recipient integrity and performance matters.we encourage inquiries concerning this funding opportunity and welcome the opportunity to answer questions from potential applicants.era service desk (questions regarding assist, era commons, application errors and warnings, documenting system problems that threaten submission by the due date, and post-submission issues)finding help online: https://www.era.nih.gov/need-help (preferred method of contact) telephone: 301-402-7469 or 866-504-9552 (toll free)general grants information (questions regarding application instructions, application processes, and nih grant resources) email: grantsinfo@nih.gov (preferred method of contact) telephone: 301-637-3015grants.gov customer support (questions regarding grants.gov registration and workspace) contact center telephone: 800-518-4726 email: support@grants.govnicole redmond, md, phd, mph national heart, lung, and blood institute (nhlbi) telephone: 301-435-0739 email: nicole.redmond@nih.govoffice of scientific review national heart, lung, and blood institute (nhlbi) telephone: 301-435-0270 email: nhlbichiefreviewbranch@nhlbi.nih.govchantal falade, mba national heart, lung, and blood institute (nhlbi) telephone: 301-827-5870 email: chantal.falade@nih.govrecently issued trans-nih policy notices may affect your application submission. a full list of policy notices published by nih is provided in the nih guide for grants and contracts. all awards are subject to the terms and conditions, cost principles, and other considerations described in the nih grants policy statement.awards are made under the authorization of sections 301 and 405 of the public health service act as amended (42 usc 241 and 284) and under federal regulations 42 cfr part 52 and 45 cfr part 75.weekly toc for this announcement nih funding opportunities and noticesnote: for help accessing pdf, rtf, ms word, excel, powerpoint, audio or video files, see help downloading files.