Innovations for Healthy Living - Improving Minority Health and Eliminating Health Disparities (R43/R44 - Clinical Trial Optional)
https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/rfa-files/RFA-MD-23-003.html
national institutes of health (nih)national institute on minority health and health disparities (nimhd) national heart, lung, and blood institute (nhlbi) national institute on aging (nia) national institute on alcohol abuse and alcoholism (niaaa) national institute of biomedical imaging and bioengineering (nibib) national institute of dental and craniofacial research (nidcr) national institute of diabetes and digestive and kidney diseases (niddk) national institute of neurological disorders and stroke (ninds) national center for advancing translational sciences (ncats)national heart, lung, and blood institute (nhlbi)national institute on aging (nia)national institute on alcohol abuse and alcoholism (niaaa)national institute of biomedical imaging and bioengineering (nibib)national institute of dental and craniofacial research (nidcr)national institute of diabetes and digestive and kidney diseases (niddk)national institute of neurological disorders and stroke (ninds)national center for advancing translational sciences (ncats)r43/r44 small business innovation research (sbir) grant - phase i, phase ii, and fast-trackfebruary 23, 2023 - notice of change to minimum performance standards for sbir and sttr applicants. see notice not-od-23-092.not-od-22-195 - new nih "forms-h" grant application forms and instructions coming for due dates on or after january 25, 2023not-od-22-189 - implementation details for the nih data management and sharing policynot-od-22-198 - implementation changes for genomic data sharing plans included with applications due on or after january 25, 2023not-od-23-012 - reminder: forms-h grant application forms & instructions must be used for due dates on or after january 25, 2023 - new grant application instructions now availablesee section iii. 3. additional information on eligibility.this funding opportunity announcement (foa) invites eligible united states small business concerns (sbcs) to submit small business innovation research (sbir) grant applications that propose to develop a product, process or service for commercialization with the aim of improving minority health and/or reducing and ultimately eliminating health disparities in one or more populations that experience health disparities. appropriate technologies should be effective, affordable, and culturally acceptable.30 days prior to the application due dateall applications are due by 5:00 pm local time of applicant organization.applicants are encouraged to apply early to allow adequate time to make any corrections to errors found in the application during the submission process by the due date.no late applications will be accepted for this funding opportunity announcement.not applicableit is critical that applicants follow the sbir/sttr (b) instructions in the sf424 (r&r) sbir/sttr application guide, except where instructed to do otherwise (in this foa or in a notice from the nih guide for grants and contracts).conformance to all requirements (both in the application guide and the foa) is required and strictly enforced. applicants must read and follow all application instructions in the application guide as well as any program-specific instructions noted in section iv. when the program-specific instructions deviate from those in the application guide, follow the program-specific instructions.applications that do not comply with these instructions may be delayed or not accepted for review.there are several options available to submit your application through grants.gov to nih and department of health and human services partners. you must use one of these submission options to access the application forms for this opportunity.backgrounddespite continued improvement in the health of the u.s. population with the introduction of medical and scientific advances, there continues to be an alarming disproportionate burden of illness among certain population groups. the mission of the nimhd is to lead scientific research aimed at the development of innovative diagnostics, treatments, and prevention strategies to improve minority health and reduce health disparities in nih-designated populations that experience health disparities in the united states and its territories. nimhd focuses on all aspects of health and health care for racial and ethnic minority populations in the u.s. and the full continuum of health disparity causes as well as the interrelation of these causes.the purpose of the funding opportunity announcement (foa) is to engage and support small businesses in providing seed (i.e., early-stage investment) funding for developing technologies, services, and products that engage, empower, and motivate individuals and communities, including providers and healthcare institutions that focus on african americans, hispanics, american indians and alaska natives, asian americans, native hawaiians and pacific islanders, disadvantaged socioeconomic groups, underserved rural populations, and sexual and gender minorities. in using this funding recipients will hopefully lay the groundwork for sustainable health promoting activities and interventions that lead to improved health, healthcare delivery, and the elimination of health disparities.other considerations relevant to the technology and products and the organization should include:research objectiveswhile this foa supports new and innovative technologies or products, applicants should review and refer to the nimhd research framework, https://nimhd.nih.gov/about/overview/research-framework.html for additional insight on nihmd’s strategic approach. the nimhd research framework identifies diverse factors within socioecological domains and levels that influence health outcomes among populations that experience health disparities compared to the majority u.s. population. applicants are encouraged to leverage this research framework to inform product conceptualization and design in their applications. this framework also provides insight into design thinking and outcome-driven innovation methods, including but not limited to:specific areas of research interesttechnologies, services, and products that might achieve the objectives of this initiative include, but are not limited to:ic-specific areas of research interesttopics of interest to nhlbi: the nhlbi is interested in funding the development of diagnostic tools, monitoring and informatics devices, wearable technologies, mobile applications, and other digital health and wellness tools to improve heart, lung, blood, and sleep (hlbs) health in historically underserved, low-resource, and remote communities. the nhlbi also encourages the use of novel technological approaches and business models to improve health in these communities by addressing usability issues that are present with current technological approaches. examples of disorders and conditions of interest to nhlbi include, but are not limited to: hypertension, congestive heart failure, coronary artery disease, stroke/cerebrovascular disease, asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, pulmonary fibrosis, pulmonary hypertension, lymphangioleiomyomatosis (lam), sarcoidosis, obstructive sleep apnea, sickle cell disease, anemia, thrombosis and coagulopathy, and hlbs-related complications of acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (aids). in addition to these disorders and conditions, nhlbi also seeks applications that address issues that are more common or cause high morbidity and mortality in women throughout the life course including pregnancy and/or the post-partum period such as cardiovascular complications, deep vein thrombosis, and postpartum hemorrhage.in addition to the above conditions, the nhlbi has a strong interest in supporting innovative uses of technology to engage minoritized communities in their health, including evidence-based management of hlbs diseases and the prevention of hlbs diseases. additionally, the nhlbi is interested in supporting the development of tools and technologies that will address barriers to uptake of the implementation and dissemination of evidence-based interventions for hlbs conditions and disorders in minority and low-income communities. these tools may include but are not limited to software programs, mobile applications, and services to improve health literacy, promote awareness of lifestyle interventions for hlbs health, increase access and promote adherence to evidence-based interventions.a complete list of nhlbi scientific focus areas is found at: https://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/science.topics of interest to nia: the nia is interested in the foa topics as they pertain to improving the health and wellbeing of aging adults in nih-defined population groups who experience health disparities. applicants should reference the nia health disparities research framework to facilitate identifying and proposing tools, technologies, and products that are effective, accessible, and culturally acceptable by the intended health disparity population(s) and which reflect the life course perspective or theory, as well as relevant levels of analysis among the different domains described in the nia health disparities research framework.nia has a special interest in research and development proposals to:for additional information on nia sbir areas of interests, please refer to https://www.nia.nih.gov/research/sbir/nia-small-business-research-priorities. applications must be responsive to this foa and explicitly address minority health or health disparities as it pertains to the nia mission and research interests.topics of interest to niaaa: the niaaa is interested in the above topics for this foa as they pertain to alcohol use disorder and alcohol-related problems including the development of tools and technologies to address the barriers of the implementation and dissemination of evidence-based interventions in minority or low-income communities. applicants are strongly encouraged to contact the niaaa sbir coordinator at niaaasbirsttr@mail.nih.gov prior to grant submission.topics of interest to nibib: the nibib is interested in the above topics for this foa as they pertain to nibib mission. nibib interests include the development and integration of advanced bioengineering, sensing, imaging, and computational technologies for the improvement of human health and medical care. an application is not within the nibib mission if its principal focus is the development of a technology with the goal of understanding basic biological functions or pathological mechanisms. additionally, nibib only supports projects developing platform technologies that are applicable to a broad spectrum of disorders and diseases. however, applicants may propose research that utilizes only a single tissue, organ, or physiological condition as a model system to facilitate the development of what is expected to be a more broadly applicable enabling technology. potential applicants are encouraged to contact the appropriate program director in their scientific program area of interest (https://www.nibib.nih.gov/research-funding) to determine if their research fits within the nibib mission.nibib funding of clinical trials will be in accordance with not-eb-21-005 "nibib guidance for support of clinical trial applications." briefly, nibib will only support mission-focused (see nibib's program areas) early-stage clinical trial applications, i.e., feasibility, phase i, first-in-human, safety, or other small clinical trials, that inform early-stage technology development. nibib will not support applications proposing pivotal, phase ii, iii, iv, or trials in which the primary outcome is efficacy, effectiveness, or a post-market concern. also, mechanistic trials are not supported unless the primary focus of the project is on technology development.topics of interest to nidcr: the nidcr is interested in supporting development of use-inspired technologies and products that promote dental, oral, and craniofacial (doc) health equity and enhance effectiveness, acceptability, access, affordability, and sustainability of doc health care and self-management in populations disproportionately affected by doc diseases and conditions. nidcr’s areas interest include, but are not limited to:nidcr does not use the sbir/sttr mechanism to support clinical trials.topics of interest to niddk: the niddk is interested in the above topics as they pertain to diabetes and other endocrine and metabolic diseases; digestive diseases, nutritional disorders associated with niddk diseases, and obesity; and kidney, urologic, and hematologic diseases. to be assigned to the niddk, applications must be directly related to the mission of the niddk (https://www.niddk.nih.gov/about-niddk/meet-director/mission-vision)topics of interest to ninds: the ninds is interested in topics as they pertain to stroke, vascular contributions to cognitive impairment and dementia (vcid), dementia, epilepsy, parkinson's disease, tbi, pain, migraine, and other neurological disorders.for proposals focusing on alzheimer’s disease and related dementias (ad/adrd), note that nia and ninds have shared interest, with ninds as the lead for vcid, lewy body dementia (lbd), and frontotemporal lobar degeneration (ftld); and nia as the lead for applications focused on alzheimer’s disease.the small business program at ninds is used to achieve the mission of the institute by supporting innovative ideas at different stages of development, including applied bench research, translational research, and early-stage clinical trials i.e., feasibility, phase i and ii, first-in-human, safety, or other small clinical trials, that inform early stage technology development. ninds will not support applications for a clinical trial where the primary aim is to establish or confirm definitive efficacy or applications to implement definitive efficacy trials (e.g., phase 3 clinical trials of drugs or pivotal device trials). ninds is interested in funding exploratory/developmental research applications that propose to study the development, validation, feasibility, and effectiveness of innovative digital health technologies [e.g., mobile health (mhealth), telemedicine and telehealth, health information technology (it), and remote monitoring devices]. these technologies should have application to address access, reach, delivery, effectiveness, scalability or sustainability of interventions that target health inequity experienced by marginalized populations.ninds highly encourages inclusion of community-based participatory research in applications to this rfa. the participatory research process is such that community members, persons affected or impacted, public health and policy professionals, and other key stakeholders in the community’s health have the opportunity to be full participants in each phase of the research. this facilitates the bidirectional transfer of knowledge and skills and the creation of appropriate and effective interventions. for studies involving human subjects, appropriate linguistic and cultural competence strategies should be incorporated to enable recruitment and retention of racial/ethnic minoritized populations. projects are encouraged to involve community partners collaborators. applicants are expected to demonstrate their ability to leverage existing partnerships (such as with tribal governments and organizations, academic and community medical centers or health systems, safety-net health or social service systems, federally qualified health centers, grassroots organizations, public health departments, community and faith-based organizations, and schools or child-care settings) to complete the study aims.applicants are encouraged to provide evidence of relationship development or collaboration with community partners with whom they will work, such as through letters of support. the roles of all partners should be clearly articulated, and budgeting should reflect the level of engagement of community partners.ninds encourages applications that can demonstrate how the composition of the core leadership team includes diverse representation (e.g. ethnic, racial, gender, career stage, institution type, geographic location, or persons with disability).for those applications that propose a clinical trial and use an fda-regulated intervention, ninds will give priority to those applications with (a) a protocol submitted under an open ind and the ind is not under full or partial hold. (b) a protocol submitted as an original ide or as a new study under an open ide, and fda has fully approved the ide or ide supplement. (c) a protocol submitted under an ind and is on full or partial hold. (d) a protocol submitted as an original ide or as a new study under an open ide, and fda has conditionally approved the ide or ide supplement. (e) a protocol is exempt from an ind. (f) a protocol is either exempt from the ide regulations or does not require ide approval because it is determined to be nonsignificant risk.ninds may decline funding of any application that includes human subjects for programmatic or administrative reasons. sttr applicants considering projects involving human subjects research are strongly encouraged to contact program staff early in the process of preparing a submission.topics of interest to ncats: the ncats strives to develop innovations to reduce, remove or bypass costly and time-consuming bottlenecks in the translational research pipeline to speed the delivery of new drugs, diagnostics and medical devices to patients. projects of most interest to ncats include those that focus on drug discovery and development, biomedical, clinical and health research informatics and clinical, dissemination and implementation research. applicants are strongly encouraged to contact the program staff at ncats-sbirsttr@mail.nih.gov prior to submitting an application. for additional information on ncats sbir areas of interest, please refer to https://ncats.nih.gov/smallbusiness/priorities. please note that the ncats sbir program does not support applications that include clinical trials.applications that do not explicitly address minority health or health disparities will be considered not responsive to the foa and will not be peer reviewed. potential applicants are encouraged to discuss their project with the appropriate ic scientific contact.see section viii. other information for award authorities and regulations.investigators proposing nih-defined clinical trials may refer to the research methods resources website for information about developing statistical methods and study designs.grant: a support mechanism providing money, property, or both to an eligible entity to carry out an approved project or activity.the following nih components intend to commit the following amounts in fy 2024:nimhd, up to $1,000,000 total costs, 3-4 awards.nhlbi, up to $2,900,000 total costs, 3 phase i and one direct-to-phase ii.nia, up to $1,500,000 total costs, 3-4 awards.niaaa, up to $600,000 total costs, 1-2 awards.nibib, up to $1,000,000 total costs, 3-4 awards.nidcr, up to $250,000 total costs, 1 award.niddk, up to $1,000,000 total costs, 1-3 awards.ninds, up to $1,000,000 total costs, 1-3 awards.ncats, up to $1,000,000 total costs, 1-3 awards.total funding support (direct costs, indirect costs, fee) normally may not exceed $295,924 for phase i awards and $1,972,828 for phase ii awards. nih has received a waiver from sba, as authorized by statute, to exceed these total award amount hard caps for specific topics. the current list of approved topics can be found at https://seed.nih.gov/sites/default/files/hhs_topics_for_budget_waivers.pdf.for applications that fit the approved waiver topics, the nia will not fund applications above $500,000 total costs in phase i and $2.5m in phase ii.for applications that fit approved waiver topics, nibib will not fund applications above $275,000.00 total costs in phase i and $1.8m in phase ii.applicants are strongly encouraged to contact program officials prior to submitting any application more than the hard caps listed above and early in the application planning process. in all cases, applicants should propose a budget that is reasonable and appropriate for completion of the research project.according to statutory guidelines, award periods normally may not exceed 6 months for phase i and 2 years for phase ii. applicants are encouraged to propose a project duration period that is reasonable and appropriate for completion of the research project.nih grants policies as described in the nih grants policy statement will apply to the applications submitted and awards made from this foa.1. eligible applicantsonly united states small business concerns (sbcs) are eligible to submit applications for this opportunity. a small business concern is one that, at the time of award of phase i and phase ii, meets all of the following criteria:4. has, including its affiliates, not more than 500 employees.if the concern is more than 50% owned by multiple venture capital operating companies, hedge funds, private equity firms, or any combination of these falls under 3 (ii) or 3 (iii) above, see section iv. application and submission information for additional instructions regarding required application certification.if an employee stock ownership plan owns all or part of the concern, each stock trustee and plan member is considered an owner.if a trust owns all or part of the concern, each trustee and trust beneficiary is considered an owner.definitions:sbcs must also meet the other regulatory requirements found in 13 c.f.r. part 121. business concerns, other than investment companies licensed, or state development companies qualifying under the small business investment act of 1958, 15 u.s.c. 661, et seq., are affiliates of one another when either directly or indirectly, (a) one concern controls or has the power to control the other; or (b) a third-party/parties controls or has the power to control both. business concerns include, but are not limited to, any individual (sole proprietorship) partnership, corporation, joint venture, association, or cooperative. the sf424 (r&r) sbir/sttr application guide should be referenced for detailed eligibility information.small business concerns that are more than 50% owned by multiple venture capital operating companies, hedge funds, private equity firms, or any combination of these are not eligible to apply to the nih sttr program.performance benchmark requirementsphase i to phase ii transition rate benchmark: in accordance with guidance from the sba, the hhs sbir/sttr program is implementing the phase i to phase ii transition rate benchmark required by the sbir/sttr reauthorization act of 2011 and the sbir and sttr extension act of 2022. the benchmark establishes a minimum number of phase ii awards the company must have received relative to a given number of phase i awards received during the 5-fiscal year time period. the transition rate is calculated as the total number of sbir and sttr phase ii awards a company received during the past 5 fiscal years divided by the total number of sbir and sttr phase i awards it received during the past 5 fiscal years excluding the most recently-completed year. the transition rate requirement, agreed upon and established by all 11 sbir agencies, was published for public comment in a federal register notice on october 16, 2012 (77 fr 63410) and amended on may 23, 2013 (78 fr 30951).on june 1 of each year, sba will identify the companies that fail to meet minimum performance requirements.sba calculates individual company phase i to phase ii transition rates using sbir and sttr award information across all federal agencies. sba will notify companies and the relevant officials at the participating agencies. more information on the phase i to phase ii transition rate requirement is available at sbir.gov.phase ii to commercialization benchmark: in accordance with guidance from the sba, the hhs sbir/sttr programs are implementing the phase ii to commercialization rate benchmark for phase i applicants, as required by the sbir/sttr reauthorization act of 2011 and the sbir and sttr extension act of 2022. the commercialization rate benchmark was published in a federal register notice on august 8, 2013 (78 fr 48537), with a reopening of the comment period published on september 26, 2013 (78 fr 59410).non-domestic (non-u.s.) entities (foreign institutions) are not eligible to apply.non-domestic (non-u.s.) components of u.s. organizations are not eligible to apply.foreign components, as defined in the nih grants policy statement, may be allowed.applicant organizationsapplicant organizations must complete and maintain the following registrations as described in the sf 424 (r&r) application guide to be eligible to apply for or receive an award. all registrations must be completed prior to the application being submitted. registration can take 6 weeks or more, so applicants should begin the registration process as soon as possible. the nih policy on late submission of grant applications states that failure to complete registrations in advance of a due date is not a valid reason for a late submission.program directors/principal investigators (pd(s)/pi(s))all pd(s)/pi(s) must have an era commons account. pd(s)/pi(s) should work with their organizational officials to either create a new account or to affiliate their existing account with the applicant organization in era commons. if the pd/pi is also the organizational signing official, they must have two distinct era commons accounts, one for each role. obtaining an era commons account can take up to 2 weeks.any individual(s) with the skills, knowledge, and resources necessary to carry out the proposed research as the program director(s)/principal investigator(s) (pd(s)/pi(s)) is invited to work with his/her organization to develop an application for support. individuals from diverse backgrounds, including underrepresented racial and ethnic groups, individuals with disabilities, and women are always encouraged to apply for nih support. see, reminder: notice of nih's encouragement of applications supporting individuals from underrepresented ethnic and racial groups as well as individuals with disabilities, not-od-22-019.for institutions/organizations proposing multiple pds/pis, visit the multiple program director/principal investigator policy and submission details in the senior/key person profile (expanded) component of the sf424 (r&r) application guide.under the sbir program, for both phase i and phase ii, the primary employment of the pd/pi must be with the small business concern at the time of award and during the conduct of the proposed project. for projects with multiple pds/pis, at least one must meet the primary employment requirement. occasionally, deviations from this requirement may occur.each pd/pi must commit a minimum of 10% effort to the project.the sf424 (r&r) sbir/sttr application guide should be referenced for specific details on eligibility requirements. for institutions/organizations proposing multiple pds/pis, see multiple principal investigators section of the sf424 (r&r) sbir/sttr application guide.2. cost sharingthis foa does not require cost sharing as defined in the nih grants policy statement.3. additional information on eligibilitynumber of applicationsapplicant organizations may submit more than one application, provided that each application is scientifically distinct.nih will not accept similar grant applications with essentially the same research focus from the same applicant organization. this includes derivative or multiple applications that propose to develop a single product, process, or service that, with non-substantive modifications, can be applied to a variety of purposes. applicants may not simultaneously submit identical/essentially identical applications under both this funding opportunity and any other hhs funding opportunity, including the sbir and sttr parent announcements.the nih will not accept duplicate or highly overlapping applications under review at the same time, per 2.3.7.4 submission of resubmission application. this means that the nih will not accept:a phase i awardee may submit a phase ii application either before or after expiration of the phase i budget period, unless the awardee elects to submit a phase i and phase ii application concurrently under the fast-track procedure. to maintain eligibility to seek phase ii or iib support, a phase i awardee should submit a phase ii application, and a phase ii awardee should submit a phase iib application, within the first six due dates following the expiration of the phase i or ii budget period, respectively.in phase i, normally, two-thirds or 67% of the research or analytical effort is carried out by the small business concern. the total amount of all consultant and contractual arrangements to third parties for portions of the scientific and technical effort is generally not more than 33% of the total amount requested (direct, f&a/indirect, and fee).in phase ii, normally, one-half or 50% of the research or analytical effort is carried out by the small business concern. the total amount of consultant and contractual arrangements to third parties for portions of the scientific and technical effort is generally not more than 50% of the total phase ii amount requested (direct, f&a/indirect, and fee).deviations from these requirements may be considered on a case by case basis. please contact a program officer for additional information. deviations must be approved in writing by the grants management officer (gmo) after consultation with the agency sbir program manager/coordinator.a small business concern may subcontract a portion of its sbir or sttr award to a federal laboratory within the limits above. a federal laboratory, as defined in 15 u.s.c. § 3703, means any laboratory, any federally funded research and development center, or any center established under 15 u.s.c. §§ 3705 & 3707 that is owned, leased, or otherwise used by a federal agency and funded by the federal government, whether operated by the government or by a contractor.the basis for determining the percentage of work to be performed by each of the cooperative parties in phase i or phase ii will be the total of the requested costs attributable to each party, unless otherwise described and justified in “consortium/contractual arrangements” of the phs 398 research plan component of sf424 (r&r) application forms.additional details are contained in the sf424 (r&r) sbir/sttr application guide.1. requesting an application packagethe application forms package specific to this opportunity must be accessed through assist, grants.gov workspace or an institutional system-to-system solution. links to apply using assist or grants.gov workspace are available in part 1 of this foa. see your administrative office for instructions if you plan to use an institutional system-to-system solution.2. content and form of application submissionit is critical that applicants follow the sbir/sttr (b) instructions in the sf424 (r&r) sbir/sttr application guide, except where instructed in this funding opportunity announcement to do otherwise. conformance to the requirements in the application guide is required and strictly enforced. applications that are out of compliance with these instructions may be delayed or not accepted for review.letter of intentalthough a letter of intent is not required, is not binding, and does not enter into the review of a subsequent application, the information that it contains allows ic staff to estimate the potential review workload and plan the review.by the date listed in part 1. overview information, prospective applicants are asked to submit a letter of intent that includes the following information:the letter of intent should be sent to:yujing liu, md, phd national institute on minority health and health disparities (nimhd) telephone: 301-402-1366 email: liuyujin@mail.nih.govall page limitations described in the sf424 (r&r) sbir/sttr application guide and the table of page limits must be followed.the following section supplements the instructions found in the sf424 (r&r) application guide and should be used for preparing an application to this foa.note: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023, the data management and sharing plan will be attached in the other plan(s) attachment in forms-h application forms packages.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) sbir/sttr application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) sbir/sttr application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) sbir/sttr application guide must be followed with the following additional instructions:facilities and other resources: describe how the organization and/or partners have a history of success in working with racial and ethnic minority or other populations that experience health disparities.other attachments:1. sbir application certification for small business concerns majority-owned by multiple venture capital operating companies, hedge funds, or private equity firmsapplicant small business concerns that are majority-owned by multiple venture capital operating companies, hedge funds, or private equity firms (e.g. majority vcoc-owned) are required to submit a certification at time of their application submission per the sbir policy directive. follow the instructions below.applicants small business concerns who are more than 50% directly owned and controlled by one or more individuals (who are citizens or permanent resident aliens of the united states), other business concerns (each of which is more than 50% directly owned and controlled by individuals who are citizens or permanent resident aliens of the united states), or any combination of these (i.e. not majority vcoc-owned) should not fill out this certification and should not attach it their application package.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) sbir/sttr application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) sbir/sttr application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) sbir/sttr application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) sbir/sttr application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) sbir/sttr application guide must be followed, with the following additional instructions:research strategyrequired components of the research strategy include:resource sharing plans:other plan(s)note: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023, the data management and sharing plan will be attached in the other plan(s) attachment in forms-h application forms packages.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed, with the following additional instructions:appendix:note that phase i sbir/sttr appendix materials are not permitted. only limited items are allowed in the appendix of other small business applications. the instructions for the appendix of the research plan are described in the sf424 (r&r) application guide; any instructions provided here are in addition to the sf424 (r&r) application guide instructions.when involving human subjects research, clinical research, and/or nih-defined clinical trials follow all instructions for the phs human subjects and clinical trials information form in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, with the following additional instructions:if you answered “yes” to the question “are human subjects involved?” on the r&r other project information form, you must include at least one human subjects study record using the study record: phs human subjects and clinical trials information form or delayed onset study record.study record: phs human subjects and clinical trials informationall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.delayed onset studynote: delayed onset does not apply to a study that can be described but will not start immediately (i.e., delayed start). all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) sbir/sttr application guide must be followed.see part 1. section iii.1 for information regarding the requirement for obtaining a unique entity identifier and for completing and maintaining active registrations in system for award management (sam), era commons, and grants.gov.4. submission dates and timespart i. overview information contains information about key dates and time. applicants are encouraged to submit applications before the due date to ensure they have time to make any application corrections that might be necessary for successful submission. when a submission date falls on a weekend or federal holiday, the application deadline is automatically extended to the next business day.organizations must submit applications to grants.gov (the online portal to find and apply for grants across all federal agencies). applicants must then complete the submission process by tracking the status of the application in the era commons, nih’s electronic system for grants administration. nih and grants.gov systems check the application against many of the application instructions upon submission. errors must be corrected and a changed/corrected application must be submitted to grants.gov on or before the application due date and time. if a changed/corrected application is submitted after the deadline, the application will be considered late. applications that miss the due date and time are subjected to the nih policy on late application submission.applicants are responsible for viewing their application before the due date in the era commons to ensure accurate and successful submission.information on the submission process and a definition of on-time submission are provided in the sf424 (r&r) sbir/sttr application guide.5. intergovernmental review (e.o. 12372)this initiative is not subject to intergovernmental review.6. funding restrictionsall nih awards are subject to the terms and conditions, cost principles, and other considerations described in the nih grants policy statement.pre-award costs are allowable only as described in the nih grants policy statement.7. other submission requirements and informationapplications must be submitted electronically following the instructions described in the sf424 (r&r) sbir/sttr application guide. paper applications will not be accepted.applicants must complete all required registrations before the application due date. section iii. eligibility information contains information about registration.for assistance with your electronic application or for more information on the electronic submission process, visit how to apply – application guide. if you encounter a system issue beyond your control that threatens your ability to complete the submission process on-time, you must follow the dealing with system issues guidance. for assistance with application submission, contact the application submission contacts in section vii.important reminders:all pd(s)/pi(s) must include their era commons id in the credential field of the senior/key person profile form. failure to register in the commons and to include a valid pd/pi commons id in the credential field will prevent the successful submission of an electronic application to nih.the applicant organization must ensure that the unique entity identifier provided on the application is the same identifier used in the organization’s profile in the era commons and for the system for award management. additional information may be found in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.see more tips for avoiding common errors.upon receipt, applications will be evaluated for completeness and compliance with application instructions by the center for scientific review and responsiveness by components of participating organizations, nih. applications that are incomplete, non-compliant and/or nonresponsive will not be reviewed.applicants are required to follow the instructions for post-submission materials, as described in the policy.only the review criteria described below will be considered in the review process. applications submitted to the nih in support of the nih mission are evaluated for scientific and technical merit through the nih peer review system.note: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023, the data sharing plan and genomic data sharing plan (gds) will not be evaluated at time of review.for this particular announcement, note the following:a proposed clinical trial application may include study design, methods, and intervention that are not by themselves innovative but address important questions or unmet needs. additionally, the results of the clinical trial may indicate that further clinical development of the intervention is unwarranted or lead to new avenues of scientific investigation.reviewers will provide an overall impact score to reflect their assessment of the likelihood for the project to exert a sustained, powerful influence on the research field(s) involved, in consideration of the following review criteria and additional review criteria (as applicable for the project proposed).reviewers will consider each of the review criteria below in the determination of scientific merit, and give a separate score for each. an application does not need to be strong in all categories to be judged likely to have major scientific impact. for example, a project that by its nature is not innovative may be essential to advance a field.significancedoes the project address an important problem or a critical barrier to progress in the field?is the prior research that serves as the key support for the proposed project rigorous? if the aims of the project are achieved, how will scientific knowledge, technical capability, and/or clinical practice be improved? how will successful completion of the aims change the concepts, methods, technologies, treatments, services, or preventative interventions that drive this field? does the proposed project have commercial potential to lead to a marketable product, process or service? (in the case of phase ii, fast-track, and phase ii competing renewals, does the commercialization plan demonstrate a high probability of commercialization?)specific to this rfa: are the proposed research and product development likely to improve racial/ethnic minority health or reduce or eliminate health disparities? to what extent does this work address an important unmet need or solve an unaddressed problem in racial/ethnic minority health or health disparities? if applicable, does the applicant identify the disparity the technology will reduce or ultimately eliminate?in addition, for applications involving clinical trialsare the scientific rationale and need for a clinical trial to test the proposed hypothesis or intervention well supported by preliminary data, clinical and/or preclinical studies, or information in the literature or knowledge of biological mechanisms? for trials focusing on clinical or public health endpoints, is this clinical trial necessary for testing the safety, efficacy or effectiveness of an intervention that could lead to a change in clinical practice, community behaviors or health care policy? for trials focusing on mechanistic, behavioral, physiological, biochemical, or other biomedical endpoints, is this trial needed to advance scientific understanding?investigator(s)are the pd(s)/pi(s), collaborators, and other researchers well suited to the project? if early stage investigators or those in the early stages of independent careers, do they have appropriate experience and training? if established, have they demonstrated an ongoing record of accomplishments that have advanced their field(s)? if the project is collaborative or multi-pd/pi, do the investigators have complementary and integrated expertise; are their leadership approach, governance and organizational structure appropriate for the project?in addition, for applications involving clinical trialswith regard to the proposed leadership for the project, do the pd/pi(s) and key personnel have the expertise, experience, and ability to organize, manage and implement the proposed clinical trial and meet milestones and timelines? do they have appropriate expertise in study coordination, data management and statistics? for a multicenter trial, is the organizational structure appropriate and does the application identify a core of potential center investigators and staffing for a coordinating center?innovationdoes the application challenge and seek to shift current research or clinical practice paradigms by utilizing novel theoretical concepts, approaches or methodologies, instrumentation, or interventions? are the concepts, approaches or methodologies, instrumentation, or interventions novel to one field of research or novel in a broad sense? is a refinement, improvement, or new application of theoretical concepts, approaches or methodologies, instrumentation, or interventions proposed?specific to this rfa: has the applicant identified the innovative elements of the proposed research and product development and discussed how these elements may lead to improving minority health or reducing/eliminating one or more health disparities?in addition, for applications involving clinical trialsdoes the design/research plan include innovative elements, as appropriate, that enhance its sensitivity, potential for information or potential to advance scientific knowledge or clinical practice?approachare the overall strategy, methodology, and analyses well-reasoned and appropriate to accomplish the specific aims of the project? have the investigators included plans to address weaknesses in the rigor of prior research that serves as the key support for the proposed project? have the investigators presented strategies to ensure a robust and unbiased approach, as appropriate for the work proposed? are potential problems, alternative strategies, and benchmarks for success presented? if the project is in the early stages of development, will the strategy establish feasibility and will particularly risky aspects be managed? for a phase i application, are there clear, appropriate, measurable goals (milestones) that should be achieved prior to initiating phase ii? have the investigators presented adequate plans to address relevant biological variables, such as sex, for studies in vertebrate animals or human subjects?specific to this rfa: are the proposed approach and product informed by the lived experiences and needs of racial/ethnic minorities or health disparity populations? if applicable, are the involvement and described role of potential partners appropriate to further the goals toward improvement of minority health and reduction of health disparities?will this work use concepts or theories from the biomedical, social behavioral, minority health or health disparities sciences to guide its research and product development efforts? are the proposed research and product development informed by the nimhd research framework or another framework?if there are foreign component(s), has the applicant stated how the proposed activities at foreign sites will improve minority health and/or help to reduce or eliminate health disparities in the united states?if the project involves human subjects and/or nih-defined clinical research, are the plans to address1) the protection of human subjects from research risks, and2) inclusion (or exclusion) of individuals on the basis of sex/gender, race, and ethnicity, as well as the inclusion or exclusion of individuals of all ages (including children and older adults), justified in terms of the scientific goals and research strategy proposed?in addition, for applications involving clinical trialsdoes the application adequately address the following, if applicablestudy designis the study design justified and appropriate to address primary and secondary outcome variable(s)/endpoints that will be clear, informative and relevant to the hypothesis being tested? is the scientific rationale/premise of the study based on previously well-designed preclinical and/or clinical research? given the methods used to assign participants and deliver interventions, is the study design adequately powered to answer the research question(s), test the proposed hypothesis/hypotheses, and provide interpretable results? is the trial appropriately designed to conduct the research efficiently? are the study populations (size, gender, age, demographic group), proposed intervention arms/dose, and duration of the trial, appropriate and well justified?are potential ethical issues adequately addressed? is the process for obtaining informed consent or assent appropriate? is the eligible population available? are the plans for recruitment outreach, enrollment, retention, handling dropouts, missed visits, and losses to follow-up appropriate to ensure robust data collection? are the planned recruitment timelines feasible and is the plan to monitor accrual adequate? has the need for randomization (or not), masking (if appropriate), controls, and inclusion/exclusion criteria been addressed? are differences addressed, if applicable, in the intervention effect due to sex/gender and race/ethnicity?are the plans to standardize, assure quality of, and monitor adherence to, the trial protocol and data collection or distribution guidelines appropriate? is there a plan to obtain required study agent(s)? does the application propose to use existing available resources, as applicable?data management and statistical analysisare planned analyses and statistical approach appropriate for the proposed study design and methods used to assign participants and deliver interventions? are the procedures for data management and quality control of data adequate at clinical site(s) or at center laboratories, as applicable? have the methods for standardization of procedures for data management to assess the effect of the intervention and quality control been addressed? is there a plan to complete data analysis within the proposed period of the award?environmentwill the scientific environment in which the work will be done contribute to the probability of success? are the institutional support, equipment and other physical resources available to the investigators adequate for the project proposed? will the project benefit from unique features of the scientific environment, subject populations, or collaborative arrangement?specific to this rfa: do the organization and/or their partner have a history of success in working with racial and ethnic minority or other populations that experience health disparities?in addition, for applications involving clinical trialsif proposed, are the administrative, data coordinating, enrollment and laboratory/testing centers, appropriate for the trial proposed?does the application adequately address the capability and ability to conduct the trial at the proposed site(s) or centers? are the plans to add or drop enrollment centers, as needed, appropriate?if international site(s) is/are proposed, does the application adequately address the complexity of executing the clinical trial?if multi-sites/centers, is there evidence of the ability of the individual site or center to: (1) enroll the proposed numbers; (2) adhere to the protocol; (3) collect and transmit data in an accurate and timely fashion; and, (4) operate within the proposed organizational structure?specific to applications involving clinical trialsis the study timeline described in detail, taking into account start-up activities, the anticipated rate of enrollment, and planned follow-up assessment? is the projected timeline feasible and well justified? does the project incorporate efficiencies and utilize existing resources (e.g., ctsas, practice-based research networks, electronic medical records, administrative database, or patient registries) to increase the efficiency of participant enrollment and data collection, as appropriate?are potential challenges and corresponding solutions discussed (e.g., strategies that can be implemented in the event of enrollment shortfalls)?phase ii applicationsfor phase ii applications, how well did the applicant demonstrate progress toward meeting the phase i (or phase i-like) objectives, demonstrating feasibility, and providing a solid foundation for the proposed phase ii activity?phase i/phase ii fast-track applicationsfor phase i/phase ii fast-track applications, reviewers will consider the following:1. does the phase i application specify clear, appropriate, measurable goals (milestones) that should be achieved prior to initiating phase ii?2. to what extent was the applicant able to obtain letters of interest, additional funding commitments, and/or resources from the private sector or non-sbir/sttr funding sources that would enhance the likelihood for commercialization?protections for human subjectsfor research that involves human subjects but does not involve one of the categories of research that are exempt under 45 cfr part 46, the committee will evaluate the justification for involvement of human subjects and the proposed protections from research risk relating to their participation according to the following five review criteria: 1) risk to subjects, 2) adequacy of protection against risks, 3) potential benefits to the subjects and others, 4) importance of the knowledge to be gained, and 5) data and safety monitoring for clinical trials.for research that involves human subjects and meets the criteria for one or more of the categories of research that are exempt under 45 cfr part 46, the committee will evaluate: 1) the justification for the exemption, 2) human subjects involvement and characteristics, and 3) sources of materials. for additional information on review of the human subjects section, please refer to the guidelines for the review of human subjects.inclusion of women, minorities, and individuals across the lifespanwhen the proposed project involves human subjects and/or nih-defined clinical research, the committee will evaluate the proposed plans for the inclusion (or exclusion) of individuals on the basis of sex/gender, race, and ethnicity, as well as the inclusion (or exclusion) of individuals of all ages (including children and older adults) to determine if it is justified in terms of the scientific goals and research strategy proposed. for additional information on review of the inclusion section, please refer to the guidelines for the review of inclusion in clinical research.vertebrate animalsthe committee will evaluate the involvement of live vertebrate animals as part of the scientific assessment according to the following criteria: (1) description of proposed procedures involving animals, including species, strains, ages, sex, and total number to be used; (2) justifications for the use of animals versus alternative models and for the appropriateness of the species proposed; (3) interventions to minimize discomfort, distress, pain and injury; and (4) justification for euthanasia method if not consistent with the avma guidelines for the euthanasia of animals. reviewers will assess the use of chimpanzees as they would any other application proposing the use of vertebrate animals. for additional information on review of the vertebrate animals section, please refer to the worksheet for review of the vertebrate animals section.biohazardsreviewers will assess whether materials or procedures proposed are potentially hazardous to research personnel and/or the environment, and if needed, determine whether adequate protection is proposed.resubmissionsfor resubmissions, the committee will evaluate the application as now presented, taking into consideration the responses to the comments from the previous scientific review group and changes made to the project.phase iib competing renewalsnot applicablerevisionsnot applicableas applicable for the project proposed, reviewers will consider each of the following items, but will not give scores for these items, and should not consider them in providing an overall impact score.applications with foreign componentsreviewers will consider whether work to be performed outside of the united states is thoroughly justified, based on a rare and unique circumstance, and necessary to the overall completion of the project.select agent researchreviewers will assess the information provided in this section of the application, including 1) the select agent(s) to be used in the proposed research, 2) the registration status of all entities where select agent(s) will be used, 3) the procedures that will be used to monitor possession use and transfer of select agent(s), and 4) plans for appropriate biosafety, biocontainment, and security of the select agent(s).resource sharing plansnote: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023, the data sharing plan and genomic data sharing plan (gds) will not be evaluated at time of review.reviewers will comment on whether the resource sharing plan(s) (i.e., sharing model organisms) or the rationale for not sharing the resources, is reasonable.authentication of key biological and/or chemical resources:for projects involving key biological and/or chemical resources, reviewers will comment on the brief plans proposed for identifying and ensuring the validity of those resources.budget and period of supportreviewers will consider whether the budget and the requested period of support are fully justified and reasonable in relation to the proposed research.2. review and selection processapplications will be evaluated for scientific and technical merit by (an) appropriate scientific review group(s) convened by the nimhd, in accordance with nih peer review policy and procedures, using the stated review criteria. assignment to a scientific review group will be shown in the era commons.as part of the scientific peer review, all applications will receive a written critique.applications may undergo a committee process in which only those applications deemed to have the highest scientific and technical merit (generally the top half of applications under review) will be discussed and assigned an overall impact score.appeals of initial peer review will not be accepted for applications submitted in response to this foa.applications will be assigned on the basis of established phs referral guidelines to the appropriate nih institute or center. applications will compete for available funds with all other recommended applications submitted in response to this foa. following initial peer review, recommended applications will receive a second level of review by the appropriate national advisory council or board. the following will be considered in making funding decisions:3. anticipated announcement and award datesafter the peer review of the application is completed, the pd/pi will be able to access his or her summary statement (written critique) via the era commons. refer to part 1 for dates for peer review, advisory council review, and earliest start date.information regarding the disposition of applications is available in the nih grants policy statement.1. award noticesindividual awards are based on the application submitted to, and as approved by, the nih and are subject to the ic-specific terms and conditions identified in the noa.clinicaltrials.gov: if an award provides for one or more clinical trials. by law (title viii, section 801 of public law 110-85), the "responsible party" must register and submit results information for certain “applicable clinical trials” on the clinicaltrials.gov protocol registration and results system information website (https://register.clinicaltrials.gov). nih expects registration and results reporting of all trials whether required under the law or not. for more information, see https://grants.nih.gov/policy/clinical-trials/reporting/index.htm.institutional review board or independent ethics committee approval: grantee institutions must ensure that all protocols are reviewed by their irb or iec. to help ensure the safety of participants enrolled in nih-funded studies, the awardee must provide nih copies of documents related to all major changes in the status of ongoing protocols.data and safety monitoring requirements: the nih policy for data and safety monitoring requires oversight and monitoring of all nih-conducted or -supported human biomedical and behavioral intervention studies (clinical trials) to ensure the safety of participants and the validity and integrity of the data. further information concerning these requirements is found at http://grants.nih.gov/grants/policy/hs/data_safety.htm and in the application instructions (sf424 (r&r) and phs 398).investigational new drug or investigational device exemption requirements: consistent with federal regulations, clinical research projects involving the use of investigational therapeutics, vaccines, or other medical interventions (including licensed products and devices for a purpose other than that for which they were licensed) in humans under a research protocol must be performed under a food and drug administration (fda) investigational new drug (ind) or investigational device exemption (ide).all nih grant and cooperative agreement awards include the nih grants policy statement as part of the noa. for these terms of award, see the nih grants policy statement part ii: terms and conditions of nih grant awards, subpart a: general and part ii: terms and conditions of nih grant awards, subpart b: terms and conditions for specific types of grants, recipients, and activities, including of note, but not limited to:if a recipient is successful and receives a notice of award, in accepting the award, the recipient agrees that any activities under the award are subject to all provisions currently in effect or implemented during the period of the award, other department regulations and policies in effect at the time of the award, and applicable statutory provisions.should the applicant organization successfully compete for an award, recipients of federal financial assistance (ffa) from hhs will be required to complete an hhs assurance of compliance form (hhs 690) in which the recipient agrees, as a term and condition of receiving the grant, to administer their programs in compliance with federal civil rights laws that prohibit discrimination on the basis of race, color, national origin, age, sex and disability, and agreeing to comply with federal conscience laws, where applicable. this includes ensuring that entities take meaningful steps to provide meaningful access to persons with limited english proficiency; and ensuring effective communication with persons with disabilities. where applicable, title xi and section 1557 prohibit discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation, and gender identity. the hhs office for civil rights provides guidance on complying with civil rights laws enforced by hhs. please see https://www.hhs.gov/civil-rights/for-providers/provider-obligations/index.html and https://www.hhs.gov/civil-rights/for-individuals/nondiscrimination/index.htmlhhs recognizes that research projects are often limited in scope for many reasons that are nondiscriminatory, such as the principal investigator’s scientific interest, funding limitations, recruitment requirements, and other considerations. thus, criteria in research protocols that target or exclude certain populations are warranted where nondiscriminatory justifications establish that such criteria are appropriate with respect to the health or safety of the subjects, the scientific study design, or the purpose of the research. for additional guidance regarding how the provisions apply to nih grant programs, please contact the scientific/research contact that is identified in section vii under agency contacts of this foa.please contact the hhs office for civil rights for more information about obligations and prohibitions under federal civil rights laws at https://www.hhs.gov/ocr/about-us/contact-us/index.html or call 1-800-368-1019 or tdd 1-800-537-7697.in accordance with the statutory provisions contained in section 872 of the duncan hunter national defense authorization act of fiscal year 2009 (public law 110-417), nih awards will be subject to the federal awardee performance and integrity information system (fapiis) requirements. fapiis requires federal award making officials to review and consider information about an applicant in the designated integrity and performance system (currently fapiis) prior to making an award. an applicant, at its option, may review information in the designated integrity and performance systems accessible through fapiis and comment on any information about itself that a federal agency previously entered and is currently in fapiis. the federal awarding agency will consider any comments by the applicant, in addition to other information in fapiis, in making a judgement about the applicant’s integrity, business ethics, and record of performance under federal awards when completing the review of risk posed by applicants as described in 45 cfr part 75.205 and 2 cfr part 200.206 “federal awarding agency review of risk posed by applicants.” this provision will apply to all nih grants and cooperative agreements except fellowships.”the office of inspector general hotline accepts tips from all sources about potential fraud, waste, abuse and mismanagement in department of health & human services programs. the reporting individual should indicate that the fraud, waste and/or abuse concerns an sbir/sttr grant or contract, if relevant. report fraud.not applicable3. data management and sharingnote: the nih policy for data management and sharing is effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023.4. reportingnih requires that sbir/sttr recipients submit the following reports within 120 days of the end of the grant budget period unless the recipient is under an extension. when multiple years are involved, recipients will be required to submit the research performance progress report (rppr) annually and financial statements as required in the nih grants policy statement.failure to submit timely final reports may affect future funding to the organization or awards with the same pd/pi. nih foas outline intended research goals and objectives. post award, nih will review and measure performance based on the details and outcomes that are shared within the rppr, as described at 2 cfr 200.301.the federal funding accountability and transparency act of 2006 (transparency act), includes a requirement for recipients of federal grants to report information about first-tier subawards and executive compensation under federal assistance awards issued in fy2011 or later. all recipients of applicable nih grants and cooperative agreements are required to report to the federal subaward reporting system (fsrs) available at www.fsrs.gov on all subawards over the threshold. see the nih grants policy statement for additional information on this reporting requirement.in accordance with the regulatory requirements provided at 45 cfr part 75 and 2 cfr part 200, recipients that have currently active federal grants, cooperative agreements, and procurement contracts from all federal awarding agencies with a cumulative total value greater than $10,000,000 for any period of time during the period of performance of a federal award, must report and maintain the currency of information reported in the system for award management (sam) about civil, criminal, and administrative proceedings in connection with the award or performance of a federal award that reached final disposition within the most recent five-year period. the recipient must also make semiannual disclosures regarding such proceedings. proceedings information will be made publicly available in the designated integrity and performance system (currently fapiis). this is a statutory requirement under section 872 of public law 110-417, as amended (41 u.s.c. 2313). as required by section 3010 of public law 111-212, all information posted in the designated integrity and performance system on or after april 15, 2011, except past performance reviews required for federal procurement contracts, will be publicly available. full reporting requirements and procedures are found in 45 cfr part 75 and 2 cfr part 200 – award term and condition for recipient integrity and performance matters.we encourage inquiries concerning this funding opportunity and welcome the opportunity to answer questions from potential applicants.era service desk (questions regarding assist, era commons, application errors and warnings, documenting system problems that threaten submission by the due date, and post-submission issues)finding help online: https://www.era.nih.gov/need-help (preferred method of contact) telephone: 301-402-7469 or 866-504-9552 (toll free)general grants information (questions regarding application instructions, application processes, and nih grant resources) email: grantsinfo@nih.gov (preferred method of contact) telephone: 301-637-3015grants.gov customer support (questions regarding grants.gov registration and workspace) contact center telephone: 800-518-4726 email: support@grants.govsba company registry (questions regarding required registration at the sba company registry and for technical questions or issues) website to email: http://sbir.gov/feedback?type=reglcdr michael banyas, usphs, mpa national insitute on minority health and health disparities(nimhd) phone: 240-619-9483 email: nimhdsbirsttr@mail.nih.govkari rich ashmont national institute of biomedical imaging and bioengineering (nibib) phone: 301-496-1447 e-mail: kari.ashmont@nih.govstephanie meyers davis national heart, lung, and blood institute (nhlbi) phone: 301-496-8412 e-mail: stephanie.davis3@nih.govemily caporello, ph.d. national institute of neurological disorders and stroke (ninds) phone: 301-496-1778 e-mail: emily.caporello@nih.govhiroko iida, dds, mph national institute of dental & craniofacial research (nidcr) phone: 301-594-7404 e-mail: hiroko.iida@nih.govorlando lopez, phd national institute of dental & craniofacial research (nidcr) phone: (301) 402-4243 e-mail: orlando.lopez@nih.govmegan ryan national institute on alcohol abuse and alcoholism (niaaa) telephone: 301-443-4225 email: mryan1@mail.nih.govdaniel gossett, ph.d. national institute of diabetes and digestive and kidney diseases (niddk) phone: 301-594-7723 email: daniel.gossett@nih.govjoy toliver, m.p.h. national institute on aging (nia) phone: 301-451-6374 email: joy.toliver@nih.govmeena uma rajagopal national center for advancing translational sciences (ncats) phone: 3018271921 e-mail: meena.rajagopal@nih.govyujing liu, md, phd national institute on minority health and health disparities (nimhd) phone: 301-402-1366 email: liuyujin@mail.nih.govpriscilla grant, jd national institute on minority health and health disparities (nimhd) phone: 301-594-8412 email: grantp@mail.nih.govannmarie brasilemejac national heart, lung, and blood institute (nhlbi) phone: (301) 827-8016 e-mail: brasilea@nhlbi.nih.govchief grants management officer national institute of neurological disorders and stroke (ninds) email: chiefgrantsmanagementofficer@ninds.nih.govgabriel hidalgo, mba national institute of dental & craniofacial research (nidcr) phone: 301-827-4630 e-mail: hidalgoge@mail.nih.govjudy fox national institute on alcohol abuse and alcoholism (niaaa) telephone: 301-443-4707 email: jfox@mail.nih.govpamela love national institute of diabetes and digestive and kidney diseases (niddk) phone: 301-435-6198 e-mail: pamela.love@nih.gove.c melvin national institute on aging (nia) phone: (301) 594-3912 e-mail: e.melvin@nih.govimoni malaika washington national center for advancing translational sciences (ncats) phone: (301) 435-2939 e-mail: imoni.williams@nih.govrecently issued trans-nih policy notices may affect your application submission. a full list of policy notices published by nih is provided in the nih guide for grants and contracts. all awards are subject to the terms and conditions, cost principles, and other considerations described in the nih grants policy statement.awards are made under the authorization of sections 301 and 405 of the public health service act as amended (42 usc 241 and 284) and under federal regulations 45 cfr part 75 and 2 cfr part 200.the sbir program is mandated by the small business innovation development act of 1982 (p.l. 97-219), reauthorizing legislation (p.l. 99-443) p.l. 102-564, p.l. 112-81 (sbir/sttr reauthorization act of 2011), as reauthorized and extended under p.l. 114-328, section 1834, and p.l. 115-232. the basic design of the nih sbir program is in accordance with the small business administration (sba) sbir policy directive.weekly toc for this announcement nih funding opportunities and noticesnote: for help accessing pdf, rtf, ms word, excel, powerpoint, audio or video files, see help downloading files.