Evaluating the Impact of Pandemic Era related Food and Housing Policies and Programs on Health Outcomes in Health Disparity Populations (R01 Clinical Trial Optional)
https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/rfa-files/RFA-NR-23-003.html
national institutes of health (nih)national institute of nursing research (ninr) national institute of mental health (nimh) national institute on minority health and health disparities (nimhd) all applications to this funding opportunity announcement should fall within the mission of the institutes/centers. the following nih offices may co-fund applications assigned to those institutes/centers. division of program coordination, planning and strategic initiatives, office of disease prevention (odp)national institute of mental health (nimh)national institute on minority health and health disparities (nimhd)all applications to this funding opportunity announcement should fall within the mission of the institutes/centers. the following nih offices may co-fund applications assigned to those institutes/centers.division of program coordination, planning and strategic initiatives, office of disease prevention (odp)r01 research project grantnot-od-22-195 - new nih "forms-h" grant application forms and instructions coming for due dates on or after january 25, 2023not-od-22-189 - implementation details for the nih data management and sharing policynot-od-22-198 - implementation changes for genomic data sharing plans included with applications due on or after january 25, 2023not-od-23-012 - reminder: forms-h grant application forms & instructions must be used for due dates on or after january 25, 2023 - new grant application instructions now availablesee section iii. 3. additional information on eligibility.the purpose of this funding opportunity announcement (foa) is to identify and evaluate the ongoing and long-term health impacts of disruptions in food and housing security experienced during the pandemic era and the role of targeted policy and programmatic actions in mitigating those impacts. for the purposes of this foa, the pandemic era is defined as the period from 2020 to present, which includes ongoing widespread adverse social, behavioral, and economic disruptions. this foa requests applications that propose examinations of how governmental (local, state, tribal, federal) food/nutrition and housing policies and programs aimed at reducing disruptive impacts of the pandemic era, influence health and health equity in individuals, families, and communities from health disparity populations.health disparity populations include racial and ethnic minority populations (as defined in omb directive 15), less privileged socioeconomic status (ses) populations, underserved rural populations, sexual and gender minorities (sgm), and any subpopulations that can be characterized by two or more of these descriptions.april 01, 2023all applications are due by 5:00 pm local time of applicant organization.applicants are encouraged to apply early to allow adequate time to make any corrections to errors found in the application during the submission process by the due date.no late applications will be accepted for this funding opportunity announcement.not applicableit is critical that applicants follow the instructions in the research (r) instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, except where instructed to do otherwise (in this foa or in a notice from nih guide for grants and contracts).conformance to all requirements (both in the application guide and the foa) is required and strictly enforced. applicants must read and follow all application instructions in the application guide as well as any program-specific instructions noted in section iv. when the program-specific instructions deviate from those in the application guide, follow the program-specific instructions.applications that do not comply with these instructions may be delayed or not accepted for review.there are several options available to submit your application through grants.gov to nih and department of health and human services partners. you must use one of these submission options to access the application forms for this opportunity.the purpose of this funding opportunity announcement (foa) is to identify and evaluate the ongoing and long-term health impacts of disruptions in food and housing security experienced during the pandemic era and the role of targeted policy and programmatic actions in mitigating those impacts. for the purposes of this foa, the pandemic era is defined as the period from 2020 to present, which includes ongoing widespread adverse social, behavioral, and economic disruptions. this foa requests applications that propose examinations of how governmental (local, state, tribal, federal) food/nutrition and housing policies and programs aimed at reducing disruptive impacts of the pandemic era, influence health and health equity in individuals, families, and communities from health disparity populations.health disparity populations include racial and ethnic minority populations (as defined in omb directive 15), less privileged socioeconomic status (ses) populations, underserved rural populations, sexual and gender minorities (sgm), and any subpopulations that can be characterized by two or more of these descriptions.the pandemic era has disrupted lives globally, triggering health, human, economic, and social crises. in the united states disruption in food and housing access are among the long list of circumstances associated with multilevel adverse health outcomes during this era. while there are promising signs of economic recovery, many households have yet to recover from job losses or reductions. the long-term effects of these pandemic-era disruptions on health and well-being continue to unfold and extend beyond the direct consequences of acute disease. of particular concern is the impact of the ongoing disruptions on populations who experience health disparities. covid-19, other recent viral threats (e.g., respiratory syncytial virus, monkeypox, and influenza), and their associated disruptions have highlighted ongoing disparities in social, behavioral, and economic conditions that influence health and health equity. two social determinants of health that continue to be impacted by the current-day disruptions of the pandemic era are food/nutrition security and housing security.food and nutrition insecurity are well-known social determinants of health for both adults and children. for example, adults in households with more severe food insecurity are more likely to have chronic health conditions such as diabetes mellitus, hypertension, coronary heart disease, and depression, as well as increased risk of mortality. children who are food insecure are twice as likely to report fair or poor health compared to those who are food secure. among children, food insecurity is also associated with adverse behavioral and academic outcomes. the pandemic era has disrupted food access and negatively impacted food security, which is associated with numerous adverse health outcomes. the overall prevalence of food insecurity rose sharply to 20% of adults in spring 2020; however, it declined in spring 2021 due to safety net responses. unfortunately, food insecurity rose again in 2022 due to inflation in food prices along with elevated costs for other basic needs such as transportation and housing. these all factor into eroding food budgets in the past year. furthermore, some of the safety net policies and programs that buffered food insecurity in 2020 and 2021 are no longer in place.housing is another important social determinant that influences health and wellbeing from birth across the lifespan. the disruptions experienced during the pandemic era have highlighted the ways in which various aspects of housing impact health. housing insecurity has been key to the spread of communicable diseases. transmission has been associated with living in congregate settings and crowded conditions, making it difficult for people to maintain safe distance from others when they are sick. individuals from racial and ethnic minority groups are more likely than white individuals to live in crowded conditions (centers for disease control and prevention, 2021). the risk of infectious disease outbreaks has also been high in homeless shelters and long-term care facility settings where people identifying as racial and ethnic minorities are disproportionately represented (centers for disease control and prevention, 2020). during the pandemic era, stable housing was recognized as critically important for community control of disease. stable housing allows individuals who become ill or who are at risk of transmitting infectious diseases to self-isolate. this was a major rationale for the national eviction moratorium and other moratoriums at the local and state levels. as a result of the supreme court’s august 26, 2021 decision, the cdc’s eviction ban is no longer in place, although states, counties, and cities can still prohibit evictions and enact other tenant protections. additionally, many pandemic era rental assistance programs have begun to sunset. little is known about how the discontinuation of housing security programs influence health outcomes and what influence ending such programs has on health equity. additionally, there have been steep increases in the cost of rents and mortgages during the pandemic era. health disparity populations struggle to afford housing and suffer negative mental and physical health outcomes as a result of poorer housing and neighborhood conditions.local, state, tribal, and federal policies and programs have attempted to blunt disruptions during the pandemic era by addressing key social determinants of health, including food/nutrition insecurity and unstable housing and housing displacements. early in the covid-19 pandemic, for example, congress and the usda strengthened the supplemental nutrition assistance program (snap) to expand its case load to 6.2 million more participants. the creation of the pandemic electronic benefits transfer program enabled households with children who relied on free or reduced priced school meals to access extra monetary benefits while schools were in distance learning. other food/nutrition policies and programs included the following: a) changes in subsidized/free meal programs (e.g., schools); b) parents picking up school meals for children to eat at home; c) additional funding for the special supplemental nutrition program for women, infants, and children (wic); and d) systems that allow people to enroll in food programs remotely. unstable housing and housing displacement interventions included the following: a) moratorium on evictions; b) emergency rental assistance and housing; c) elimination of single-family zoning; and d) mortgage relief.these and other local, state, tribal, and federal pandemic-era food and housing policies and programs that were developed in response to the disruptive conditions, as well as future policies and programs, can be evaluated using a “natural experiment” approach to examine their influence on health, health disparities, and health equity. while there are some cross-sectional studies using modeling and simulation to assess the impact of governmental strategies aimed at lessening the effects of pandemic-era disruptions, longitudinal studies treating policies and programs as natural experiments can help identify specific causal pathways connecting policies and health. changes in policy, including sunsetting of eviction moratoriums, rental assistance, and expanded subsidized/free school meal programs and others, can provide additional opportunities to study the extent to which these policies reduced the health and health equity impacts of the pandemic era or caused unintended consequences. studies explicitly addressing how context modifies policy effects, how policies and programs influence health disparities, and that elucidate the intersectional nature of food and housing security or with other social determinants of health in the pandemic era are encouraged. such research will yield lessons for mitigating the disruptive effects of future pandemics and for addressing persistent structural factors influencing health equity.the research objective is to use study designs that allow for the examination of food and housing policies and programs (such as those federal actions described at nutrition.gov and hud.gov) that aim to reduce the impact of pandemic-era disruptions on health, health disparities, and health equity, to understand the pathways of these effects, and to describe long-term consequences. this foa may support studies where an exposure or change is not directly manipulated by the researcher, and where comparable control data are available and confounding variables can be limited through study design, sample selection, and statistical analysis. other rigorous experimental designs are allowable including prospective interventional studies, if the study fits within the scope of the foa. rigorous efforts to address potential sources of bias related to causal inference are encouraged and, where appropriate, attention should be paid to advances in the analysis of natural experiments arising in various disciplines. applicants should also account for unintended consequences of policies and programs on health, where applicable. the investigations proposed in response to this funding opportunity should be generalizable to the target population of the study. given that the most effective policy solutions may be those that are targeted to the covered population, studies evaluating policies or programs designed and implemented by local, state or tribal administrations are not expected to be generalizable to the u.s. population.applicants can propose research that study one or more policies and programs and their combined impacts on child and/or adult health.examples of topics of interest include, but are not limited to:in addition to the above areas of interest, interests of selected participating institutes and centers (ics) are summarized below. applicants are encouraged to contact the scientific/research contact at the intended ic to ensure that proposed aims of the project are consistent with ic mission and priorities. applications must include a plan for enhancing diverse perspectives (pedp) submitted as other project information as an attachment (see section iv). the pedp will be assessed as part of the scientific and technical peer review evaluation, as well as considered among programmatic matters with respect to funding decisions.national institute of nursing research (ninr)ninr is interested in applications relevant to the topics described in this rfa and that support the ninr 2022-2026 strategic plan priorities for research.ninr supports research to solve pressing health challenges and inform practice and policy optimizing health and advancing health equity into the future. ninr discovers solutions to health challenges through the lenses of health equity, social determinants of health, population and community health, prevention and health promotion, and systems and models of care. drawing on the strengths of nursing’s holistic contextualized perspective, core values, and broad reach, ninr funds foundational, intervention, and implementation research that examines the factors at multiple levels that impact health, health disparities, and health equity across the many settings in which nurses practice, including homes, schools, workplaces, clinics, justice settings, and the community.areas of programmatic interest to ninr include but are not limited to studies that try to understand what happens when pandemic era policies and programs are sunset/discontinued; studies that attempt to comprehend the intersectional nature of food and housing security along with other social determinants of health in a pandemic era; and studies that address experiences and outcomes based on the intersection of social identities (e.g. being black and female, etc.). also of interest are studies that attempt to determine which policies and programs would best be continued to create the widespread and sustainable changes required to address factors that create social marginalization and poor health.national institute of mental health (nimh)the national institute of mental health (nimh) is interested in applications relevant to priorities described in this rfa and that support the nimh strategic plan for research. this could include (but not be limited to) examinations of the downstream impact of policies and programs designed to mitigate the impact of the pandemic on food and nutrition security (e.g., free school meal programs) and/or housing security/stability strategies (e.g., fema’s public assistance program for reimbursement of costs associated with housing, eviction moratoriums) on preventive care, engagement with and adherence to mental health treatment, other self-management behaviors, quality of mental health care received, and mental health outcomes (e.g., suicidal behavior, depression, anxiety). nimh is interested in exploring the mechanisms by which policies and relevant interventions lead to better access/engagement and mh outcomes.nimh does not support clinical trials in this announcement. to learn more about how nimh defines clinical trials, please see https://www.nimh.nih.gov/funding/opportunities-announcements/clinical-trials-foas. investigators interested in pursuing clinical trials may wish to consider alternate funding mechanisms such as par-21-129, par-21-130 or par-21-131.nimh supports non-clinical trials research for this funding announcement, including quasi-experimental studies, survey or qualitative research methods, clinical epidemiology, and development and evaluation of new research methods, measures, financing approaches, or statistical approaches related to mental health services research.nimh is committed to supporting research that reduces disparities and advances equity in mental health interventions, services, and outcomes. accordingly, this foa encourages research studies that seek to reduce disparities for racial and ethnic minority groups, individuals limited by language or cultural barriers, sexual and gender minorities, individuals living in rural areas, socioeconomically disadvantaged persons and other underserved groups.nimh encourages a deployment-focused model of intervention and services design and evaluation that takes into account the perspective of relevant stakeholders (e.g., service users, providers, administrators, payers) and the key characteristics of the settings (e.g., resources, including workforce capacity; existing clinical workflows) that are intended to implement optimized mental health interventions. this attention to end-user perspectives and characteristics of intended clinical and/or community practice settings is intended to ensure the resultant interventions and service delivery strategies are acceptable to consumers and providers, the approaches are feasible and scalable in the settings where individuals are served, and the research results will have utility for end users.nimh encourages research on potentially scalable preventive, therapeutic, and services interventions that focuses on practice-relevant questions. accordingly, collaborations between academic researchers and clinical or community practice partners or networks are encouraged. when possible, studies should capitalize on existing infrastructure (e.g., practice-based research networks such as the nimh-sponsored mental health research network (mhrn), electronic medical records, administrative databases, patient registries, institutions with clinical and translational science awards) to increase the efficiency of participant recruitment (i.e., more rapid identification and enrollment) and to facilitate the collection of moderator data (e.g., clinical characteristics, biomarkers), longer-term follow-up data, and broader, stakeholder-relevant outcomes (e.g., mental health and general health care utilization, value and efficiency of intervention approaches).office of disease prevention (odp)the odp is the lead office at the nih responsible for assessing, facilitating, and stimulating research in disease prevention. in partnership with the 27 nih institutes and centers, the odp strives to increase the scope, quality, dissemination, and impact of nih-supported prevention research. the odp is interested in providing co-funding support for research that has strong implications for disease prevention and health equity and that include innovative and appropriate design, measurement, and analysis methods. odp has specific interest in projects that propose evaluation of policy and programmatic actions to address food/nutrition and housing security and the resulting effects on reducing health disparities. the odp also is interested in applications that propose to study impact of pandemic related food and housing mitigation strategies on long-term health effects of the pandemic (e.g., on risk and severity of chronic conditions, such as hypertension, coronary heart disease, diabetes and behavioral health outcomes, including depression, anxiety, substance use).non-responsiveness criteria:applications will be considered non-responsive to this foa if the proposed study:plan for enhancing diverse perspectivesapplications must include a plan for enhancing diverse perspectives (pedp), submitted as an other project information attachment (see section iv; further below). the pedp will be assessed as part of the scientific and technical peer review evaluation, as well as at the programmatic level with respect to funding decisions.referencescenters for disease control and prevention. (2021, april 19). health equity considerations & racial & ethnic minority groups. retrieved from https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/community/health-equity/race-ethnicity.htmlcenters for disease control and prevention. (2020, december 10). increased risk factors for exposure: racial and ethnic health disparities. retrieved september 29, 2021 from risk of exposure to covid-19 | cdcsee section viii. other information for award authorities and regulations.investigators proposing nih-defined clinical trials may refer to the research methods resources website for information about developing statistical methods and study designs.grant: a support mechanism providing money, property, or both to an eligible entity to carry out an approved project or activity.the oer glossary and the sf424 (r&r) application guide provide details on these application types. only those application types listed here are allowed for this foa.optional: accepting applications that either propose or do not propose clinical trial(s).need help determining whether you are doing a clinical trial?the number of awards is contingent upon nih appropriations and the submission of a sufficient number of meritorious applications.issuing ic and partner components intend to commit an estimated total of $4 million to fund 4-6 awards.application budgets are not limited but need to reflect the actual needs of the proposed project.although application budgets are not limited, applicants proposing budgets of $500,000 or more in direct costs in any one year (excluding consortium f&a) are strongly encouraged to discuss the research project application with the listed ninr scientific/research contact before submitting the application.the scope of the proposed project should determine the project period. the maximum project period is 5 years.nih grants policies as described in the nih grants policy statement will apply to the applications submitted and awards made from this foa.1. eligible applicantshigher education institutionsthe following types of higher education institutions are always encouraged to apply for nih support as public or private institutions of higher education:nonprofits other than institutions of higher educationfor-profit organizationslocal governmentsfederal governmentothernon-domestic (non-u.s.) entities (foreign institutions) are not eligible to apply.non-domestic (non-u.s.) components of u.s. organizations are not eligible to apply.foreign components, as defined in the nih grants policy statement, are allowed.applicant organizationsapplicant organizations must complete and maintain the following registrations as described in the sf 424 (r&r) application guide to be eligible to apply for or receive an award. all registrations must be completed prior to the application being submitted. registration can take 6 weeks or more, so applicants should begin the registration process as soon as possible. the nih policy on late submission of grant applications states that failure to complete registrations in advance of a due date is not a valid reason for a late submission.program directors/principal investigators (pd(s)/pi(s))all pd(s)/pi(s) must have an era commons account. pd(s)/pi(s) should work with their organizational officials to either create a new account or to affiliate their existing account with the applicant organization in era commons. if the pd/pi is also the organizational signing official, they must have two distinct era commons accounts, one for each role. obtaining an era commons account can take up to 2 weeks.any individual(s) with the skills, knowledge, and resources necessary to carry out the proposed research as the program director(s)/principal investigator(s) (pd(s)/pi(s)) is invited to work with their organization to develop an application for support. individuals from diverse backgrounds, including underrepresented racial and ethnic groups, individuals with disabilities, and women are always encouraged to apply for nih support. see, reminder: notice of nih's encouragement of applications supporting individuals from underrepresented ethnic and racial groups as well as individuals with disabilities, not-od-22-019.for institutions/organizations proposing multiple pds/pis, visit the multiple program director/principal investigator policy and submission details in the senior/key person profile (expanded) component of the sf424 (r&r) application guide.2. cost sharingthis foa does not require cost sharing as defined in the nih grants policy statement.3. additional information on eligibilitynumber of applicationsapplicant organizations may submit more than one application, provided that each application is scientifically distinct.the nih will not accept duplicate or highly overlapping applications under review at the same time, per 2.3.7.4 submission of resubmission application. this means that the nih will not accept:1. requesting an application packagethe application forms package specific to this opportunity must be accessed through assist, grants.gov workspace or an institutional system-to-system solution. links to apply using assist or grants.gov workspace are available in part 1 of this foa. see your administrative office for instructions if you plan to use an institutional system-to-system solution.2. content and form of application submissionit is critical that applicants follow the instructions in the research (r) instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide except where instructed in this funding opportunity announcement to do otherwise. conformance to the requirements in the application guide is required and strictly enforced. applications that are out of compliance with these instructions may be delayed or not accepted for review.although a letter of intent is not required, is not binding, and does not enter into the review of a subsequent application, the information that it contains allows ic staff to estimate the potential review workload and plan the review.by the date listed in part 1. overview information, prospective applicants are asked to submit a letter of intent that includes the following information:the letter of intent should be sent to:foareviewcontact@csr.nih.govall page limitations described in the sf424 application guide and the table of page limits must be followed.the following section supplements the instructions found in the sf424 (r&r) application guide and should be used for preparing an application to this foa.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed, with the following additional instructions:plan for enhancing diverse perspectives (pedp)in an "other attachment" entitled "plan for enhancing diverse perspectives," all applicants must include a summary of strategies to advance the scientific and technical merit of the proposed project through expanded inclusivity. the pedp should provide a holistic and integrated view of how enhancing diverse perspectives is viewed and supported throughout the application and can incorporate elements with relevance to any review criteria (significance, investigator(s), innovation, approach, and environment) as appropriate. where possible, applicant(s) should align their description with these required elements within the research strategy section. the pedp will vary depending on the scientific aims, expertise required, the environment and performance site(s), as well as how the project aims are structured. the pedp may be no more than 1-page in length and should include a timeline and milestones for relevant components that will be considered as part of the review. examples of items that advance inclusivity in research and may be part of the pedp can include, but are not limited to:for further information on the plan for enhancing diverse perspectives (pedp), please see https://braininitiative.nih.gov/about/plan-enhancing-diverse-perspectives-pedp.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.r&r or modular budgetall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.pedp implementation costs:r&r subaward budgetall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed, with the following additional instructions:resource sharing plan:individuals are required to comply with the instructions for the resource sharing plans as provided in the sf424 (r& r ) application guide.other plan(s):note: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023, the data management and sharing plan will be attached in the other plan(s) attachment in forms-h application forms packages.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed, with the following additional instructions:only limited appendix materials are allowed. follow all instructions for the appendix as described in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.when involving human subjects research, clinical research, and/or nih-defined clinical trials (and when applicable, clinical trials research experience) follow all instructions for the phs human subjects and clinical trials information form in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, with the following additional instructions:if you answered “yes” to the question “are human subjects involved?” on the r&r other project information form, you must include at least one human subjects study record using the study record: phs human subjects and clinical trials information form or delayed onset study record.study record: phs human subjects and clinical trials informationall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.delayed onset studynote: delayed onset does not apply to a study that can be described but will not start immediately (i.e., delayed start).all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.3. unique entity identifier and system for award management (sam)see part 1. section iii.1 for information regarding the requirement for obtaining a unique entity identifier and for completing and maintaining active registrations in system for award management (sam), nato commercial and government entity (ncage) code (if applicable), era commons, and grants.govpart i. overview information contains information about key dates and times. applicants are encouraged to submit applications before the due date to ensure they have time to make any application corrections that might be necessary for successful submission. when a submission date falls on a weekend or federal holiday, the application deadline is automatically extended to the next business day.organizations must submit applications to grants.gov (the online portal to find and apply for grants across all federal agencies). applicants must then complete the submission process by tracking the status of the application in the era commons, nih’s electronic system for grants administration. nih and grants.gov systems check the application against many of the application instructions upon submission. errors must be corrected and a changed/corrected application must be submitted to grants.gov on or before the application due date and time. if a changed/corrected application is submitted after the deadline, the application will be considered late. applications that miss the due date and time are subjected to the nih policy on late application submission.applicants are responsible for viewing their application before the due date in the era commons to ensure accurate and successful submission.information on the submission process and a definition of on-time submission are provided in the sf424 (r&amp;r) application guide.5. intergovernmental review (e.o. 12372)this initiative is not subject to intergovernmental review.all nih awards are subject to the terms and conditions, cost principles, and other considerations described in the nih grants policy statement.pre-award costs are allowable only as described in the nih grants policy statement.applications must be submitted electronically following the instructions described in the sf424 (r&r) application guide. paper applications will not be accepted.applications must include milestones and a timeline. applications that fail to include milestones and a timeline will be considered incomplete and will be withdrawn. applications must include a pedp submitted as other project information as an attachment. applications that fail to include a pedp will be considered incomplete and will be withdrawn before review.applicants must complete all required registrations before the application due date. section iii. eligibility information contains information about registration.for assistance with your electronic application or for more information on the electronic submission process, visit how to apply – application guide. if you encounter a system issue beyond your control that threatens your ability to complete the submission process on-time, you must follow the dealing with system issues guidance. for assistance with application submission, contact the application submission contacts in section vii.important reminders:all pd(s)/pi(s) must include their era commons id in the credential field of the senior/key person profile form. failure to register in the commons and to include a valid pd/pi commons id in the credential field will prevent the successful submission of an electronic application to nih. see section iii of this foa for information on registration requirements.the applicant organization must ensure that the unique entity identifier provided on the application is the same identifier used in the organization’s profile in the era commons and for the system for award management. additional information may be found in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.see more tips for avoiding common errors.upon receipt, applications will be evaluated for completeness and compliance with application instructions by the center for scientific review and responsiveness by components of participating organizations, nih. applications that are incomplete, non-compliant and/or nonresponsive will not be reviewed.applicants are required to follow the instructions for post-submission materials, as described in the policyany instructions provided here are in addition to the instructions in the policy.1. criteriaonly the review criteria described below will be considered in the review process. applications submitted to the nih in support of the nih mission are evaluated for scientific and technical merit through the nih peer review system.a proposed clinical trial application may include study design, methods, and intervention that are not by themselves innovative but address important questions or unmet needs. additionally, the results of the clinical trial may indicate that further clinical development of the intervention is unwarranted or lead to new avenues of scientific investigation.overall impactreviewers will provide an overall impact score to reflect their assessment of the likelihood for the project to exert a sustained, powerful influence on the research field(s) involved, in consideration of the following review criteria and additional review criteria (as applicable for the project proposed).scored review criteriareviewers will consider each of the review criteria below in the determination of scientific merit and give a separate score for each. an application does not need to be strong in all categories to be judged likely to have major scientific impact. for example, a project that by its nature is not innovative may be essential to advance a field.significancedoes the project address an important problem or a critical barrier to progress in the field? is the prior research that serves as the key support for the proposed project rigorous? if the aims of the project are achieved, how will scientific knowledge, technical capability, and/or clinical practice be improved? how will successful completion of the aims change the concepts, methods, technologies, treatments, services, or preventative interventions that drive this field?in addition, for applications involving clinical trialsare the scientific rationale and need for a clinical trial to test the proposed hypothesis or intervention well supported by preliminary data, clinical and/or preclinical studies, or information in the literature or knowledge of biological mechanisms? for trials focusing on clinical or public health endpoints, is this clinical trial necessary for testing the safety, efficacy or effectiveness of an intervention that could lead to a change in clinical practice, community behaviors or health care policy? for trials focusing on mechanistic, behavioral, physiological, biochemical, or other biomedical endpoints, is this trial needed to advance scientific understanding?specific to this funding opportunity:investigator(s)are the pd(s)/pi(s), collaborators, and other researchers well suited to the project? if early stage investigators or those in the early stages of independent careers, do they have appropriate experience and training? if established, have they demonstrated an ongoing record of accomplishments that have advanced their field(s)? if the project is collaborative or multi-pd/pi, do the investigators have complementary and integrated expertise; are their leadership approach, governance, and organizational structure appropriate for the project?in addition, for applications involving clinical trialswith regard to the proposed leadership for the project, do the pd/pi(s) and key personnel have the expertise, experience, and ability to organize, manage and implement the proposed clinical trial and meet milestones and timelines? do they have appropriate expertise in study coordination, data management and statistics? for a multicenter trial, is the organizational structure appropriate and does the application identify a core of potential center investigators and staffing for a coordinating center?specific to this funding opportunity:innovationdoes the application challenge and seek to shift current research or clinical practice paradigms by utilizing novel theoretical concepts, approaches or methodologies, instrumentation, or interventions? are the concepts, approaches or methodologies, instrumentation, or interventions novel to one field of research or novel in a broad sense? is a refinement, improvement, or new application of theoretical concepts, approaches or methodologies, instrumentation, or interventions proposed?in addition, for applications involving clinical trialsdoes the design/research plan include innovative elements, as appropriate, that enhance its sensitivity, potential for information or potential to advance scientific knowledge or clinical practice?specific to this funding opportunity:approachare the overall strategy, methodology, and analyses well-reasoned and appropriate to accomplish the specific aims of the project? have the investigators included plans to address weaknesses in the rigor of prior research that serves as the key support for the proposed project? have the investigators presented strategies to ensure a robust and unbiased approach, as appropriate for the work proposed? are potential problems, alternative strategies, and benchmarks for success presented? if the project is in the early stages of development, will the strategy establish feasibility and will particularly risky aspects be managed? have the investigators presented adequate plans to address relevant biological variables, such as sex, for studies in vertebrate animals or human subjects?if the project involves human subjects and/or nih-defined clinical research, are the plans to address 1) the protection of human subjects from research risks, and 2) inclusion (or exclusion) of individuals on the basis of sex/gender, race, and ethnicity, as well as the inclusion or exclusion of individuals of all ages (including children and older adults), justified in terms of the scientific goals and research strategy proposed?in addition, for applications involving clinical trialsdoes the application adequately address the following, if applicablestudy designis the study design justified and appropriate to address primary and secondary outcome variable(s)/endpoints that will be clear, informative and relevant to the hypothesis being tested? is the scientific rationale/premise of the study based on previously well-designed preclinical and/or clinical research? given the methods used to assign participants and deliver interventions, is the study design adequately powered to answer the research question(s), test the proposed hypothesis/hypotheses, and provide interpretable results? is the trial appropriately designed to conduct the research efficiently? are the study populations (size, gender, age, demographic group), proposed intervention arms/dose, and duration of the trial, appropriate and well justified?are potential ethical issues adequately addressed? is the process for obtaining informed consent or assent appropriate? is the eligible population available? are the plans for recruitment outreach, enrollment, retention, handling dropouts, missed visits, and losses to follow-up appropriate to ensure robust data collection? are the planned recruitment timelines feasible and is the plan to monitor accrual adequate? has the need for randomization (or not), masking (if appropriate), controls, and inclusion/exclusion criteria been addressed? are differences addressed, if applicable, in the intervention effect due to sex/gender and race/ethnicity?are the plans to standardize, assure quality of, and monitor adherence to, the trial protocol and data collection or distribution guidelines appropriate? is there a plan to obtain required study agent(s)? does the application propose to use existing available resources, as applicable?data management and statistical analysisare planned analyses and statistical approach appropriate for the proposed study design and methods used to assign participants and deliver interventions? are the procedures for data management and quality control of data adequate at clinical site(s) or at center laboratories, as applicable? have the methods for standardization of procedures for data management to assess the effect of the intervention and quality control been addressed? is there a plan to complete data analysis within the proposed period of the award?specific to this funding opportunity:environmentwill the scientific environment in which the work will be done contribute to the probability of success? are the institutional support, equipment, and other physical resources available to the investigators adequate for the project proposed? will the project benefit from unique features of the scientific environment, subject populations, or collaborative arrangements?in addition, for applications involving clinical trialsif proposed, are the administrative, data coordinating, enrollment and laboratory/testing centers, appropriate for the trial proposed?does the application adequately address the capability and ability to conduct the trial at the proposed site(s) or centers? are the plans to add or drop enrollment centers, as needed, appropriate?if international site(s) is/are proposed, does the application adequately address the complexity of executing the clinical trial?if multi-sites/centers, is there evidence of the ability of the individual site or center to: (1) enroll the proposed numbers; (2) adhere to the protocol; (3) collect and transmit data in an accurate and timely fashion; and, (4) operate within the proposed organizational structure?specific to this funding opportunity:additional review criteriaas applicable for the project proposed, reviewers will evaluate the following additional items while determining scientific and technical merit, and in providing an overall impact score, but will not give separate scores for these items.study timelinespecific to applications involving clinical trialsis the study timeline described in detail, taking into account start-up activities, the anticipated rate of enrollment, and planned follow-up assessment? is the projected timeline feasible and well justified? does the project incorporate efficiencies and utilize existing resources (e.g., ctsas, practice-based research networks, electronic medical records, administrative database, or patient registries) to increase the efficiency of participant enrollment and data collection, as appropriate?are potential challenges and corresponding solutions discussed (e.g., strategies that can be implemented in the event of enrollment shortfalls)?protections for human subjectsfor research that involves human subjects but does not involve one of the categories of research that are exempt under 45 cfr part 46, the committee will evaluate the justification for involvement of human subjects and the proposed protections from research risk relating to their participation according to the following five review criteria: 1) risk to subjects, 2) adequacy of protection against risks, 3) potential benefits to the subjects and others, 4) importance of the knowledge to be gained, and 5) data and safety monitoring for clinical trials.for research that involves human subjects and meets the criteria for one or more of the categories of research that are exempt under 45 cfr part 46, the committee will evaluate: 1) the justification for the exemption, 2) human subjects involvement and characteristics, and 3) sources of materials. for additional information on review of the human subjects section, please refer to the guidelines for the review of human subjects.inclusion of women, minorities, and individuals across the lifespanwhen the proposed project involves human subjects and/or nih-defined clinical research, the committee will evaluate the proposed plans for the inclusion (or exclusion) of individuals on the basis of sex/gender, race, and ethnicity, as well as the inclusion (or exclusion) of individuals of all ages (including children and older adults) to determine if it is justified in terms of the scientific goals and research strategy proposed. for additional information on review of the inclusion section, please refer to the guidelines for the review of inclusion in clinical research.vertebrate animalsthe committee will evaluate the involvement of live vertebrate animals as part of the scientific assessment according to the following criteria: (1) description of proposed procedures involving animals, including species, strains, ages, sex, and total number to be used; (2) justifications for the use of animals versus alternative models and for the appropriateness of the species proposed; (3) interventions to minimize discomfort, distress, pain and injury; and (4) justification for euthanasia method if not consistent with the avma guidelines for the euthanasia of animals. reviewers will assess the use of chimpanzees as they would any other application proposing the use of vertebrate animals. for additional information on review of the vertebrate animals section, please refer to the worksheet for review of the vertebrate animals section.biohazardsreviewers will assess whether materials or procedures proposed are potentially hazardous to research personnel and/or the environment, and if needed, determine whether adequate protection is proposed.resubmissionsfor resubmissions, the committee will evaluate the application as now presented, taking into consideration the responses to comments from the previous scientific review group and changes made to the project.renewalsnot applicablerevisionsnot applicableas applicable for the project proposed, reviewers will consider each of the following items, but will not give scores for these items, and should not consider them in providing an overall impact score.applications from foreign organizationsnot applicable.select agent researchreviewers will assess the information provided in this section of the application, including 1) the select agent(s) to be used in the proposed research, 2) the registration status of all entities where select agent(s) will be used, 3) the procedures that will be used to monitor possession use and transfer of select agent(s), and 4) plans for appropriate biosafety, biocontainment, and security of the select agent(s).resource sharing plansreviewers will comment on whether the resource sharing plan(s) (i.e., sharing model organisms) or the rationale for not sharing the resources, is reasonable.authentication of key biological and/or chemical resources:for projects involving key biological and/or chemical resources, reviewers will comment on the brief plans proposed for identifying and ensuring the validity of those resources.budget and period of supportreviewers will consider whether the budget and the requested period of support are fully justified and reasonable in relation to the proposed research.2. review and selection processapplications will be evaluated for scientific and technical merit by (an) appropriate scientific review group(s) convened by the center for scientific review, in accordance with nih peer review policy and procedures, using the stated review criteria. assignment to a scientific review group will be shown in the era commons.as part of the scientific peer review, all applications will receive a written critique.applications may undergo a selection process in which only those applications deemed to have the highest scientific and technical merit (generally the top half of applications under review) will be discussed and assigned an overall impact score.appeals of initial peer review will not be accepted for applications submitted in response to this foa.applications will be assigned on the basis of established phs referral guidelines to the appropriate nih institute or center. applications will compete for available funds with all other recommended applications submitted in response to this foa. following initial peer review, recommended applications will receive a second level of review by the national advisory council for nursing research. the following will be considered in making funding decisions:3. anticipated announcement and award datesafter the peer review of the application is completed, the pd/pi will be able to access his or her summary statement (written critique) via the era commons. refer to part 1 for dates for peer review, advisory council review, and earliest start date.information regarding the disposition of applications is available in the nih grants policy statement.1. award noticesif the application is under consideration for funding, nih will request "just-in-time" information from the applicant as described in the nih grants policy statement.a formal notification in the form of a notice of award (noa) will be provided to the applicant organization for successful applications. the noa signed by the grants management officer is the authorizing document and will be sent via email to the recipient's business official.recipients must comply with any funding restrictions described in section iv.5. funding restrictions. selection of an application for award is not an authorization to begin performance. any costs incurred before receipt of the noa are at the recipient's risk. these costs may be reimbursed only to the extent considered allowable pre-award costs.any application awarded in response to this foa will be subject to terms and conditions found on the award conditions and information for nih grants website. this includes any recent legislation and policy applicable to awards that is highlighted on this website.individual awards are based on the application submitted to, and as approved by, the nih and are subject to the ic-specific terms and conditions identified in the noa.clinicaltrials.gov: if an award provides for one or more clinical trials. by law (title viii, section 801 of public law 110-85), the "responsible party" must register and submit results information for certain “applicable clinical trials” on the clinicaltrials.gov protocol registration and results system information website (https://register.clinicaltrials.gov). nih expects registration and results reporting of all trials whether required under the law or not. for more information, see https://grants.nih.gov/policy/clinical-trials/reporting/index.htminstitutional review board or independent ethics committee approval: recipient institutions must ensure that all protocols are reviewed by their irb or iec. to help ensure the safety of participants enrolled in nih-funded studies, the recipient must provide nih copies of documents related to all major changes in the status of ongoing protocols.data and safety monitoring requirements: the nih policy for data and safety monitoring requires oversight and monitoring of all nih-conducted or -supported human biomedical and behavioral intervention studies (clinical trials) to ensure the safety of participants and the validity and integrity of the data. further information concerning these requirements is found at http://grants.nih.gov/grants/policy/hs/data_safety.htm and in the application instructions (sf424 (r&r) and phs 398).investigational new drug or investigational device exemption requirements: consistent with federal regulations, clinical research projects involving the use of investigational therapeutics, vaccines, or other medical interventions (including licensed products and devices for a purpose other than that for which they were licensed) in humans under a research protocol must be performed under a food and drug administration (fda) investigational new drug (ind) or investigational device exemption (ide).2. administrative and national policy requirementsall nih grant and cooperative agreement awards include the nih grants policy statement as part of the noa. for these terms of award, see the nih grants policy statement part ii: terms and conditions of nih grant awards, subpart a: general and part ii: terms and conditions of nih grant awards, subpart b: terms and conditions for specific types of grants, recipients, and activities, including of note, but not limited to:if a recipient is successful and receives a notice of award, in accepting the award, the recipient agrees that any activities under the award are subject to all provisions currently in effect or implemented during the period of the award, other department regulations and policies in effect at the time of the award, and applicable statutory provisions.should the applicant organization successfully compete for an award, recipients of federal financial assistance (ffa) from hhs will be required to complete an hhs assurance of compliance form (hhs 690) in which the recipient agrees, as a term and condition of receiving the grant, to administer their programs in compliance with federal civil rights laws that prohibit discrimination on the basis of race, color, national origin, age, sex and disability, and agreeing to comply with federal conscience laws, where applicable. this includes ensuring that entities take meaningful steps to provide meaningful access to persons with limited english proficiency; and ensuring effective communication with persons with disabilities. where applicable, title xi and section 1557 prohibit discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation, and gender identity. the hhs office for civil rights provides guidance on complying with civil rights laws enforced by hhs. please see https://www.hhs.gov/civil-rights/for-providers/provider-obligations/index.html and https://www.hhs.gov/civil-rights/for-individuals/nondiscrimination/index.htmlhhs recognizes that research projects are often limited in scope for many reasons that are nondiscriminatory, such as the principal investigator’s scientific interest, funding limitations, recruitment requirements, and other considerations. thus, criteria in research protocols that target or exclude certain populations are warranted where nondiscriminatory justifications establish that such criteria are appropriate with respect to the health or safety of the subjects, the scientific study design, or the purpose of the research. for additional guidance regarding how the provisions apply to nih grant programs, please contact the scientific/research contact that is identified in section vii under agency contacts of this foa.please contact the hhs office for civil rights for more information about obligations and prohibitions under federal civil rights laws at https://www.hhs.gov/ocr/about-us/contact-us/index.html or call 1-800-368-1019 or tdd 1-800-537-7697.in accordance with the statutory provisions contained in section 872 of the duncan hunter national defense authorization act of fiscal year 2009 (public law 110-417), nih awards will be subject to the federal awardee performance and integrity information system (fapiis) requirements. fapiis requires federal award making officials to review and consider information about an applicant in the designated integrity and performance system (currently fapiis) prior to making an award. an applicant, at its option, may review information in the designated integrity and performance systems accessible through fapiis and comment on any information about itself that a federal agency previously entered and is currently in fapiis. the federal awarding agency will consider any comments by the applicant, in addition to other information in fapiis, in making a judgement about the applicant’s integrity, business ethics, and record of performance under federal awards when completing the review of risk posed by applicants as described in 45 cfr part 75.205 and 2 cfr part 200.206 “federal awarding agency review of risk posed by applicants.” this provision will apply to all nih grants and cooperative agreements except fellowships.”not applicable3. data management and sharingnote: the nih policy for data management and sharing is effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023.consistent with the nih policy for data management and sharing, when data management and sharing is applicable to the award, recipients will be required to adhere to the data management and sharing requirements as outlined in the nih grants policy statement. upon the approval of a data management and sharing plan, it is required for recipients to implement the plan as described.4. reportingwhen multiple years are involved, recipients will be required to submit the research performance progress report (rppr) annually and financial statements as required in the nih grants policy statement.a final rppr, invention statement, and the expenditure data portion of the federal financial report are required for closeout of an award, as described in the nih grants policy statement. nih foas outline intended research goals and objectives. post award, nih will review and measure performance based on the details and outcomes that are shared within the rppr, as described at 45 cfr part 75.301 and 2 cfr part 200.301.the federal funding accountability and transparency act of 2006 (transparency act), includes a requirement for recipients of federal grants to report information about first-tier subawards and executive compensation under federal assistance awards issued in fy2011 or later. all recipients of applicable nih grants and cooperative agreements are required to report to the federal subaward reporting system (fsrs) available at www.fsrs.gov on all subawards over $25,000. see the nih grants policy statement for additional information on this reporting requirement.in accordance with the regulatory requirements provided at 45 cfr 75.113 and 2 cfr part 200.113 and appendix xii to 45 cfr part 75 and 2 cfr part 200, recipients that have currently active federal grants, cooperative agreements, and procurement contracts from all federal awarding agencies with a cumulative total value greater than $10,000,000 for any period of time during the period of performance of a federal award, must report and maintain the currency of information reported in the system for award management (sam) about civil, criminal, and administrative proceedings in connection with the award or performance of a federal award that reached final disposition within the most recent five-year period. the recipient must also make semiannual disclosures regarding such proceedings. proceedings information will be made publicly available in the designated integrity and performance system (currently fapiis). this is a statutory requirement under section 872 of public law 110-417, as amended (41 u.s.c. 2313). as required by section 3010 of public law 111-212, all information posted in the designated integrity and performance system on or after april 15, 2011, except past performance reviews required for federal procurement contracts, will be publicly available. full reporting requirements and procedures are found in appendix xii to 45 cfr part 75 and 2 cfr part 200– award term and conditions for recipient integrity and performance matters.we encourage inquiries concerning this funding opportunity and welcome the opportunity to answer questions from potential applicants.era service desk (questions regarding assist, era commons, application errors and warnings, documenting system problems that threaten submission by the due date, and post-submission issues)finding help online: https://www.era.nih.gov/need-help (preferred method of contact) telephone: 301-402-7469 or 866-504-9552 (toll free)general grants information (questions regarding application instructions, application processes, and nih grant resources) email: grantsinfo@nih.gov (preferred method of contact) telephone: 301-637-3015grants.gov customer support (questions regarding grants.gov registration and workspace) contact center telephone: 800-518-4726 email: support@grants.govkaren huss, phdnational institute of nursing research (ninr)telephone: 301-594-5970email: hussk@mail.nih.govcrystal l. barksdale, phd, mphnational institute on minority health and health disparities (nimhd)phone: 301-402-1366e-mail: crystal.barksdale@nih.govbramaramba kowtha ms, rdn, ldnoffice of disease prevention (odp)telephone: 301-435-8052email: bramaramba.kowtha@nih.govjennifer humensky, ph.d.national institute of mental health (nimh)telephone: 301-480-1265email: jennifer.humensky@nih.govcenter for scientific review (csr)email: foareviewcontact@csr.nih.govkelli osternational institute of nursing research (ninr)telephone: 301-594-2177email: osterk@mail.nih.govpriscilla grant, jdnational institute on minority health and health disparities (nimhd)phone: 301-594-8412e-mail: pg38h@nih.govtamara keesnational institute of mental health (nimh)telephone: 301-443-8811email: tamara.kees@nih.govrecently issued trans-nih policy notices may affect your application submission. a full list of policy notices published by nih is provided in the nih guide for grants and contracts. all awards are subject to the terms and conditions, cost principles, and other considerations described in the nih grants policy statement.awards are made under the authorization of sections 301 and 405 of the public health service act as amended (42 usc 241 and 284) and under federal regulations 42 cfr part 52 and 45 cfr part 75 and 2 cfr part 200.weekly toc for this announcement nih funding opportunities and noticesnote: for help accessing pdf, rtf, ms word, excel, powerpoint, audio or video files, see help downloading files.