Consortium for Food Allergy Research: Clinical Research Center (U01 Clinical Trial Required)
https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/rfa-files/RFA-AI-22-076.html
national institutes of health (nih)national institute of allergy and infectious diseases (niaid)u01 research project – cooperative agreementsapril 7, 2023 - notice of change to application and submission information in rfa-ai-22-076, “consortium for food allergy research: clinical research center (u01 clinical trial required)”. see notice not-ai-23-043not-od-22-195 new nih "forms-h" grant application forms and instructions coming for due dates on or after january 25, 2023not-od-22-189 implementation details for the nih data management and sharing policynot-od-22-198 implementation changes for genomic data sharing plans included with applications due on or after january 25, 2023only one application per institution is allowed, as defined in section iii. 3. additional information on eligibility.the purpose of this funding opportunity announcement (foa) is to solicit applications for the clinical research centers (crc) for the niaid consortium for food allergy research (cofar). the cofar-crcs will conduct both network-wide observational studies/clinical trials and center-specific projects with the goals to advance prevention and management strategies and to improve knowledge on the origins and the pathophysiology of ige-mediated food allergy, alpha-gal syndrome, food protein-induced enterocolitis syndrome and eosinophilic esophagitis. for network-wide clinical research projects and other network functions, the cofar-crcs will work closely with the cofar leadership center (cofar-lc).30 days prior to the application due dateall applications are due by 5:00 pm local time of applicant organization.applicants are encouraged to apply early to allow adequate time to make any corrections to errors found in the application during the submission process by the due date.not applicableit is critical that applicants follow the instructions in the research (r) instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, except where instructed to do otherwise (in this foa or in a notice from nih guide for grants and contracts).conformance to all requirements (both in the application guide and the foa) is required and strictly enforced. applicants must read and follow all application instructions in the application guide as well as any program-specific instructions noted in section iv. when the program-specific instructions deviate from those in the application guide, follow the program-specific instructions.applications that do not comply with these instructions may be delayed or not accepted for review.there are several options available to submit your application through grants.gov to nih and department of health and human services partners. you must use one of these submission options to access the application forms for this opportunity.food allergy includes several immune-mediated conditions that have become serious health problems in the united states and other countries. over the past 3 decades, the prevalence of food allergy in children has increased substantially.ige-mediated food allergy is associated with severe and sometimes life-threatening allergic reactions. among certain cohorts of highly allergic children, accidental exposure results in approximately one reaction per person per year, and 11% of such reactions are severe. it is impossible to predict which individuals are at risk of severe reactions, and the gold-standard of diagnosis is to challenge the individual and observe a reaction. there is only one fda-approved therapy for ige-mediated food allergy, which is limited to peanut and designed only to make children "bite-safe" to accidental exposures; avoidance of food allergens and treatment of food allergy-induced systemic reactions with epinephrine remain the standard of care.to address the concerns about the increasing incidence of food allergy and paucity of treatment options, niaid established the consortium for food allergy research (cofar) in 2005. during three consecutive funding periods, cofar has conducted clinical trials and observational studies testing various forms of food allergen immunotherapy and examining the natural history of food allergy in children. cofar and other research groups have demonstrated that oral food allergen immunotherapy has promise as an approach that can allow most children with ige-mediated food allergy to become desensitized and tolerate substantial amounts of the food to which they are allergic.however, oral immunotherapy has limitations: it can cause allergic reactions, some patients are not able to tolerate it, and not all patients that are able to tolerate therapy achieve the ability to ingest an appreciable amount of the food allergen in question. furthermore, there is a small risk for developing eosinophilic esophagitis (eoe) while on oral immunotherapy, and many patients are unable to stop therapy without rapidly regaining their food reactivity. studies are needed to address these challenges and to optimize and test various immunotherapeutic approaches in food allergy. importantly, determining optimal timing (best age to initiate treatment, duration of treatment) and optimal dosing of food allergen immunotherapy require careful evaluations. in addition, the immunologic changes that are necessary for a food-allergic patient to acquire durable food tolerance need exploration so that tolerance-focused therapies can be developed. management of food allergy may benefit from the emergence of multiple immunomodulatory agents that target various aspects of type 2 immunity. some of these agents, including adjuvants, could theoretically be combined with allergen immunotherapy to induce therapeutic, antigen-specific immune regulation, deviation, or deletion of effector cells.the leap study, conducted by the niaid-funded immune tolerance network, successfully established the concept of prevention of ige-mediated peanut allergy by early dietary introduction in infancy. since then, various studies have suggested that other ige-mediated food allergies could be similarly prevented. many questions remain as to the optimal age, dose, and frequency for early dietary introduction of allergenic foods. also, additional concepts on the prevention of ige-mediated food allergy have emerged that require more definitive testing. for example, does allergenic food consumption during pregnancy or lactation have preventive effects? what is the role of the intestinal microbiome in early infancy, how is it influenced by the mother's microbiome, and can alterations of early life gut microbiome improve immunologic tolerance and reduce food allergy? other factors, potentially acting through epigenetic or other indirect mechanisms need to be explored.the oral food challenge remains the gold standard in the diagnosis of ige-mediated food allergy. this procedure is time-consuming and has risks; therefore, it cannot be conducted in large scale. this diminishes accuracy in the epidemiology and clinical diagnosis of food allergy. results obtained from in vitro testing, particularly with component diagnostics and newer allergenic epitope methodologies, have yielded promising results and need to be rigorously tested in diverse populations alone or in combination with carefully developed questionnaires in order to create diagnostic algorithms of high positive and negative predictive values.the spectrum of food-induced allergic conditions is wider than ige-mediated food allergy and continues to expand. eoe was first reported in 1978 and only recognized as a distinct clinical entity in 1993. at first thought to be a rare disease, the current estimate is that it affects up to 1 in 1,000 people in the us and is the most common cause of food impaction. food protein-induced enterocolitis syndrome (fpies) also was first described in the 1970s and is a disease that causes acute and repetitive vomiting, sometimes accompanied by diarrhea, that can be severe enough to cause hypovolemic shock. alpha-gal syndrome (ags) was only recognized in 2008. it produces reactions that occur after ingesting mammalian meats but are delayed for several hours after exposure. although, in recent years, significant knowledge has been acquired and therapeutic advances in eoe have been made, the fundamental pathophysiology of this condition remains unknown and additional therapeutic approaches need to be developed. the mechanism(s) of fpies also are unknown, accurate identification of the offending food(s) and follow-up to assess resolution require oral food challenges with the above-described limitation of these procedures, and no specific therapeutics or therapeutic strategies are available. similarly, although the culprit for ags is probably allergic sensitization to galactose-?-1,3-galactose, the mechanism of allergic sensitization (currently assumed to be linked to tick bites) requires further examination, the reason why reactions are delayed are unclear, and therapies are not available.cofar is a clinical network consisting of two distinct entities, the cofar leadership center (lc) and the cofar clinical research centers (crcs). the two entities will work collaboratively to conduct network-wide, ground-breaking clinical research projects in the areas of prevention, therapy, and understanding of the mechanisms of food allergy. the cofar-lc will provide leadership, overall strategy, and support for the network-wide clinical research projects. the cofar-crcs will execute all network-wide clinical research projects.it is expected that cofar will conduct at least two network-wide clinical research projects. at least one of these projects will be a therapeutic or preventive clinical trial. both the cofar-lc and the cofar-crcs will propose network-wide clinical research projects. once cofar is formed, these proposals will be considered by the cofar steering committee and those to be executed will be chosen by the cofar-lc pd(s)/pi(s). the network-wide clinical research projects that the cofar will conduct will require approval by niaid, which will consider programmatic priorities in its decision.each cofar-crc will propose one network-wide clinical trial or observational study. in addition, each cofar-crc will conduct one or two center-specific research projects.the scope of the network-wide, multi-center clinical trial or observational study the cofar-crc will propose includes but is not limited to:the center-specific research projects the cofar-crcs will conduct can be a non-therapeutic observational study, a clinical mechanistic study, or a laboratory study utilizing new or existing human biosamples. the center-specific project should involve junior faculty investigators in key roles whenever possible. clinical trials per the nih definition (https://grants.nih.gov/policy/clinical-trials/definition.htm) are not allowed to be proposed for center-specific research projects. one of the goals of the center-specific research projects is to provide pilot data to inform potential larger, future cofar network-wide projects and to assess various aspects of the presentation of food allergy in diverse populations.the scope of center-specific research projects includes, but is not limited to:applicants may submit to both the cofar leadership center (rfa-ai-22-077) and the cofar clinical research centers. however, an applicant must propose different network-wide clinical trials in each of the two applications.applications that propose the following topics will be considered non-responsive and will not be reviewednote: foreign components may only provide services in support of clinical study or clinical trial activities (e.g., conduct of laboratory assays). foreign components must not conduct clinical trials or clinical studies.resources provided by niaid to the cofar clinical research networkthe following resources will be provided by niaid to the cofar for network-wide projects:niaid-dait funds resources (centers) that provide a broad range of clinical research services including support for the design and organization of clinical study protocols, data management, biosample repository and management, clinical site monitoring, safety monitoring and reporting, data analysis and manuscript development.the following centers will be supporting cofar:study drug distribution center: niaid-dait funds a study drug distribution center which will store, label, and distribute study drug used for some or all network-wide cofar trials.clinical trial sponsorship: niaid will be the sponsor for all network-wide clinical trials.niaid-appointed asthma and allergy data and safety monitoring board (dsmb): all cofar network-wide clinical trials will be reviewed by the dsmb provided by niaid. after study initiation, the dsmb will conduct periodic safety reviews.public access to cofar network-wide data: all network-wide clinical trial, clinical study, biomarker, and mechanistic data produced by the cofar will be made publicly available by niaid through the cdsmc and the aa-sccc either via immport or another niaid-approved resource.the services outlined above will not be provided for center-specific projects. for center-specific projects, the aa-sccc will validate the biostatistical work conducted by the cofar-crc prior to final manuscript submission.the cofar-crcs will conduct network-wide and center-specific projects. to accomplish this goal, each cofar-crc should have the ability to support clinical research functions and propose research projects as follows:cofar network-wide protocol funds:the cofar-crc award will provide funds for 12 person-months of clinical coordinator time and 1 month of pi time that will specifically support some of the work that will be required for the crc to conduct cofar network-wide projects and to participate in other network-wide activities. additional protocol-specific funds will be disbursed by the cofar-lc to cofar-crcs participating in a network-wide project. the magnitude of funds will depend on the specifics of the project.investigators proposing nih-defined clinical trials may refer to the research methods resources website for information about developing statistical methods and study designs.for more information see the niaid research funding site "questions and answers for rfa-ai-22-076" found at the following: faqs linksee section viii. other information for award authorities and regulations.investigators proposing nih-defined clinical trials may refer to the research methods resources website for information about developing statistical methods and study designs.cooperative agreement: a support mechanism used when there will be substantial federal scientific or programmatic involvement. substantial involvement means that, after award, nih scientific or program staff will assist, guide, coordinate, or participate in project activities. see section vi.2 for additional information about the substantial involvement for this foa.the oer glossary and the sf424 (r&r) application guide provide details on these application types. only those application types listed here are allowed for this foa.required: only accepting applications that propose clinical trial(s).need help determining whether you are doing a clinical trial?niaid intends to commit a total of $12.1 million in fy 2024 to support all the activities of the consortium for food allergy research program. this $12.1 million includes funding for: 1) 12 awards for cofar crcs at an estimated $400,000 per award, and 2) through the companion foa, the support for one award for the cofar leadership center.costs should be appropriate to the needs of the proposed project(s). this includes funding for: 1) personnel time to partially support cofar network-wide clinical research projects, 2) personnel time and other costs for the proposed crc-specific research project(s).the proposed project period must be 7 years.nih grants policies as described in the nih grants policy statement will apply to the applications submitted and awards made from this foa.1. eligible applicantshigher education institutionsthe following types of higher education institutions are always encouraged to apply for nih support as public or private institutions of higher education:nonprofits other than institutions of higher educationfor-profit organizationslocal governmentsfederal governmentotherforeign components may only provide services in support of clinical study or clinical trial activities (e.g., conduct of laboratory assays). foreign components must not conduct clinical trials or clinical studies.non-domestic (non-u.s.) entities (foreign institutions) are not eligible to apply.non-domestic (non-u.s.) components of u.s. organizations are not eligible to apply.foreign components, as defined in the nih grants policy statement, are allowed.applicant organizationsapplicant organizations must complete and maintain the following registrations as described in the sf 424 (r&r) application guide to be eligible to apply for or receive an award. all registrations must be completed prior to the application being submitted. registration can take 6 weeks or more, so applicants should begin the registration process as soon as possible. the nih policy on late submission of grant applications states that failure to complete registrations in advance of a due date is not a valid reason for a late submission.program directors/principal investigators (pd(s)/pi(s))all pd(s)/pi(s) must have an era commons account. pd(s)/pi(s) should work with their organizational officials to either create a new account or to affiliate their existing account with the applicant organization in era commons. if the pd/pi is also the organizational signing official, they must have two distinct era commons accounts, one for each role. obtaining an era commons account can take up to 2 weeks.any individual(s) with the skills, knowledge, and resources necessary to carry out the proposed research as the program director(s)/principal investigator(s) (pd(s)/pi(s)) is invited to work with his/her organization to develop an application for support. individuals from diverse backgrounds, including underrepresented racial and ethnic groups, individuals with disabilities, and women are always encouraged to apply for nih support. see, reminder: notice of nih's encouragement of applications supporting individuals from underrepresented ethnic and racial groups as well as individuals with disabilities, not-od-22-019.for institutions/organizations proposing multiple pds/pis, visit the multiple program director/principal investigator policy and submission details in the senior/key person profile (expanded) component of the sf424 (r&r) application guide.2. cost sharingthis foa does not require cost sharing as defined in the nih grants policy statement.3. additional information on eligibilitynumber of applicationsonly one application per institution (normally identified by having a unique uei or nih ipf number) is allowed.the nih will not accept duplicate or highly overlapping applications under review at the same time, per 2.3.7.4 submission of resubmission application. this means that the nih will not accept:applicants may submit to both the cofar-lc and cofar-crc funding opportunities. however, different clinical research projects must be proposed in each of the two applications.1. requesting an application packagethe application forms package specific to this opportunity must be accessed through assist, grants.gov workspace or an institutional system-to-system solution. links to apply using assist or grants.gov workspace are available in part 1 of this foa. see your administrative office for instructions if you plan to use an institutional system-to-system solution.2. content and form of application submissionit is critical that applicants follow the instructions in the research (r) instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide except where instructed in this funding opportunity announcement to do otherwise. conformance to the requirements in the application guide is required and strictly enforced. applications that are out of compliance with these instructions may be delayed or not accepted for review.letter of intentalthough a letter of intent is not required, is not binding, and does not enter into the review of a subsequent application, the information that it contains allows ic staff to estimate the potential review workload and plan the review.by the date listed in part 1. overview information, prospective applicants are asked to submit a letter of intent that includes the following information:the letter of intent should be sent to:poonam tewary, ph.d. telephone: 301-761-7219 email: poonam.tewary@nih.govall page limitations described in the sf424 application guide and the table of page limits must be followed.for this specific foa, the research strategy section is limited to 30 pages.the following section supplements the instructions found in the sf424 (r&r) application guide and should be used for preparing an application to this foa.note: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023, the data management and sharing plan will be attached in the other plan(s) attachment in forms-h application forms packages.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed, with the following additional instructions:facilities & other resources:all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed, with the following additional instructions:r&r or modular budgetall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.include funds with justification for the following:r&r subaward budgetall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed, with the following additional instructions:specific aims: list the specific aims of the application.research strategy:the research strategy must include 3 clearly marked subsections: a) crc-clinical research functions, b) network-wide clinical research project, and c) crc-specific research project(s).subsection a: crc-clinical research functionssubsection b: network-wide clinical research projectdescribe one cutting edge multi-center clinical research project (trial or study) in food allergy, considering the objectives and scope of cofar. discuss the clinical and biological significance of the proposed project for the field of food allergy. include preliminary and supporting data as appropriate.for the proposed clinical research project:subsection c: crc-specific research projectsto improve clarity, applicants are encouraged to organize this subsection using headings to distinguish between different research projects if more than one is proposed.letter of support: provide a letter of commitment from manufacturers if investigational drug(s) or device(s) are to be provided at no cost. provide letter(s) of commitment from the principal investigator(s) of any study that will provide samples from a previously conducted or ongoing clinical trial or study.resource sharing plan:individuals are required to comply with the instructions for the resource sharing plans as provided in the sf424 (r& r ) application guide.the following modifications also apply:other plan(s):note: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023, the data management and sharing plan will be attached in the other plan(s) attachment in forms-h application forms packages.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed, with the following additional instructions:only limited appendix materials are allowed. follow all instructions for the appendix as described in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.when involving human subjects research, clinical research, and/or nih-defined clinical trials (and when applicable, clinical trials research experience) follow all instructions for the phs human subjects and clinical trials information form in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, with the following additional instructions:if you answered “yes” to the question “are human subjects involved?” on the r&r other project information form, you must include at least one human subjects study record using the study record: phs human subjects and clinical trials information form or delayed onset study record.study record: phs human subjects and clinical trials informationall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed, with the following additional instructions:although applicants must be prepared for clinical trials, definite plans for such involvement will not be possible at time of application. a study record should not be completed.delayed onset studynote: delayed onset does not apply to a study that can be described but will not start immediately (i.e., delayed start). all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed, with the following additional instructions:note: applicants proposing no clinical trials must enter at least one delayed onset study record and check the box "anticipated clinical trial?".justification attachmentall delayed onset studies must provide a justification explaining why information on network-wide clinical research projects will not be available at the time of application. this is because they will need to be considered by the cofar steering committee, chosen by the cofar-lc pd(s)/pi(s) and approved by niaid.section 2- study population characteristics2.5 recruitment and retention plan2.7 study timelineprovide a table or graphic representation of a timeline of the proposed center-specific clinical research projects.section 3- protection and monitoring plans3.1 protection of human subjects3.1.1 risks to human subjects3.1.1.b study procedures, materials and potential risksfor all research projects provide the following information:for applications proposing to use samples from ongoing or completed clinical research, provide a timeline for the request, transportation and arrival of the biological samples, and the timeline associated with the preparation and use of the biological samples.3.3 data and safety monitoring plana data and safety monitoring plan will be developed for every study in collaboration with dait-niaid.3.4 will a data and safety monitoring board be appointed for this study?the dait allergy and asthma dsmb will be the dsmb for monitoring all clinical research projects that the site will conduct that require monitoring.section 4- protocol synopsis4.1. study design4.1.a. detailed descriptionfor multi-visit studies, provide a description of the study design including the procedures and activities that occur at each visit (schedule of events).section 5.1- other clinical trial-related attachmentsdescribe the plan to obtain required investigational agents.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.3. unique entity identifier and system for award management (sam)see part 1. section iii.1 for information regarding the requirement for obtaining a unique entity identifier and for completing and maintaining active registrations in system for award management (sam), nato commercial and government entity (ncage) code (if applicable), era commons, and grants.govpart i. overview information contains information about key dates and times. applicants are encouraged to submit applications before the due date to ensure they have time to make any application corrections that might be necessary for successful submission. when a submission date falls on a weekend or federal holiday, the application deadline is automatically extended to the next business day.organizations must submit applications to grants.gov (the online portal to find and apply for grants across all federal agencies). applicants must then complete the submission process by tracking the status of the application in the era commons, nih’s electronic system for grants administration. nih and grants.gov systems check the application against many of the application instructions upon submission. errors must be corrected and a changed/corrected application must be submitted to grants.gov on or before the application due date and time. if a changed/corrected application is submitted after the deadline, the application will be considered late. applications that miss the due date and time are subjected to the nih policy on late application submission.applicants are responsible for viewing their application before the due date in the era commons to ensure accurate and successful submission.information on the submission process and a definition of on-time submission are provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.5. intergovernmental review (e.o. 12372)this initiative is not subject to intergovernmental review.all nih awards are subject to the terms and conditions, cost principles, and other considerations described in the nih grants policy statement.pre-award costs are allowable only as described in the nih grants policy statement.applications must be submitted electronically following the instructions described in the sf424 (r&r) application guide. paper applications will not be accepted.applicants must complete all required registrations before the application due date. section iii. eligibility information contains information about registration.for assistance with your electronic application or for more information on the electronic submission process, visit how to apply – application guide. if you encounter a system issue beyond your control that threatens your ability to complete the submission process on-time, you must follow the dealing with system issues guidance. for assistance with application submission, contact the application submission contacts in section vii.important reminders:all pd(s)/pi(s) must include their era commons id in the credential fieldof the senior/key person profile form. failure to register in the commons and to include a valid pd/pi commons id in the credential field will prevent the successful submission of an electronic application to nih. see section iii of this foa for information on registration requirements.the applicant organization must ensure that the unique entity identifier provided on the application is the same identifier used in the organization’s profile in the era commons and for the system for award management. additional information may be found in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.see more tips for avoiding common errors.upon receipt, applications will be evaluated for completeness and compliance with application instructions by the center for scientific review and responsiveness by niaid, nih. applications that are incomplete, non-compliant and/or nonresponsive will not be reviewed.applicants are required to follow the instructions for post-submission materials, as described in the policy1. criteriaonly the review criteria described below will be considered in the review process. applications submitted to the nih in support of the nih mission are evaluated for scientific and technical merit through the nih peer review system.note: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023, the data sharing plan and genomic data sharing plan (gds) will not be evaluated at time of review.for this particular announcement, note the following:a proposed clinical trial application may include study design, methods, and intervention that are not by themselves innovative but address important questions or unmet needs. additionally, the results of the clinical trial may indicate that further clinical development of the intervention is unwarranted or lead to new avenues of scientific investigation.overall impactreviewers will provide an overall impact score to reflect their assessment of the likelihood for the project to exert a sustained, powerful influence on the research field(s) involved, in consideration of the following review criteria and additional review criteria (as applicable for the project proposed). while each application will be evaluated in its entirety based on one overall impact score per application, the cofar clinical research projects within each application will also each receive a separate impact score.scored review criteriareviewers will consider each of the review criteria below in the determination of scientific merit and give a separate score for each. an application does not need to be strong in all categories to be judged likely to have major scientific impact. for example, a project that by its nature is not innovative may be essential to advance a field.significancedoes the project address an important problem or a critical barrier to progress in the field? is the prior research that serves as the key support for the proposed project rigorous? if the aims of the project are achieved, how will scientific knowledge, technical capability, and/or clinical practice be improved? how will successful completion of the aims change the concepts, methods, technologies, treatments, services, or preventative interventions that drive this field?are the scientific rationale and need for a clinical trial to test the proposed hypothesis or intervention well supported by preliminary data, clinical and/or preclinical studies, or information in the literature or knowledge of biological mechanisms? for trials focusing on clinical or public health endpoints, is this clinical trial necessary for testing the safety, efficacy or effectiveness of an intervention that could lead to a change in clinical practice, community behaviors or health care policy? for trials focusing on mechanistic, behavioral, physiological, biochemical, or other biomedical endpoints, is this trial needed to advance scientific understanding?specific for this foa crc-clinical research functionsinvestigator(s)are the pd(s)/pi(s), collaborators, and other researchers well suited to the project? if early stage investigators or those in the early stages of independent careers, do they have appropriate experience and training? if established, have they demonstrated an ongoing record of accomplishments that have advanced their field(s)? if the project is collaborative or multi-pd/pi, do the investigators have complementary and integrated expertise; are their leadership approach, governance, and organizational structure appropriate for the project?with regard to the proposed leadership for the project, do the pd/pi(s) and key personnel have the expertise, experience, and ability to organize, manage and implement the proposed clinical trial and meet milestones and timelines? do they have appropriate expertise in study coordination, data management and statistics? for a multicenter trial, is the organizational structure appropriate and does the application identify a core of potential center investigators and staffing for a coordinating center?specific for this foacrc clinical research functionscrc-specific research projectsinnovationdoes the application challenge and seek to shift current research or clinical practice paradigms by utilizing novel theoretical concepts, approaches or methodologies, instrumentation, or interventions? are the concepts, approaches or methodologies, instrumentation, or interventions novel to one field of research or novel in a broad sense? is a refinement, improvement, or new application of theoretical concepts, approaches or methodologies, instrumentation, or interventions proposed?does the design/research plan include innovative elements, as appropriate, that enhance its sensitivity, potential for information or potential to advance scientific knowledge or clinical practice?approachare the overall strategy, methodology, and analyses well-reasoned and appropriate to accomplish the specific aims of the project? have the investigators included plans to address weaknesses in the rigor of prior research that serves as the key support for the proposed project? have the investigators presented strategies to ensure a robust and unbiased approach, as appropriate for the work proposed? are potential problems, alternative strategies, and benchmarks for success presented? if the project is in the early stages of development, will the strategy establish feasibility and will particularly risky aspects be managed? have the investigators presented adequate plans to address relevant biological variables, such as sex, for studies in vertebrate animals or human subjects?if the project involves human subjects and/or nih-defined clinical research, are the plans to address 1) the protection of human subjects from research risks, and 2) inclusion (or exclusion) of individuals on the basis of sex/gender, race, and ethnicity, as well as the inclusion or exclusion of individuals of all ages (including children and older adults), justified in terms of the scientific goals and research strategy proposed?does the application adequately address the following, if applicablestudy designis the study design justified and appropriate to address primary and secondary outcome variable(s)/endpoints that will be clear, informative and relevant to the hypothesis being tested? is the scientific rationale/premise of the study based on previously well-designed preclinical and/or clinical research? given the methods used to assign participants and deliver interventions, is the study design adequately powered to answer the research question(s), test the proposed hypothesis/hypotheses, and provide interpretable results? is the trial appropriately designed to conduct the research efficiently? are the study populations (size, gender, age, demographic group), proposed intervention arms/dose, and duration of the trial, appropriate and well justified?are potential ethical issues adequately addressed? is the process for obtaining informed consent or assent appropriate? is the eligible population available? are the plans for recruitment outreach, enrollment, retention, handling dropouts, missed visits, and losses to follow-up appropriate to ensure robust data collection? are the planned recruitment timelines feasible and is the plan to monitor accrual adequate? has the need for randomization (or not), masking (if appropriate), controls, and inclusion/exclusion criteria been addressed? are differences addressed, if applicable, in the intervention effect due to sex/gender and race/ethnicity?are the plans to standardize, assure quality of, and monitor adherence to, the trial protocol and data collection or distribution guidelines appropriate? is there a plan to obtain required study agent(s)? does the application propose to use existing available resources, as applicable?data management and statistical analysisare planned analyses and statistical approach appropriate for the proposed study design and methods used to assign participants and deliver interventions? are the procedures for data management and quality control of data adequate at clinical site(s) or at center laboratories, as applicable? have the methods for standardization of procedures for data management to assess the effect of the intervention and quality control been addressed? is there a plan to complete data analysis within the proposed period of the award?specific for this foacrc clinical research functionsnetwork-wide clinical research projectfor clinical studies that are not a clinical trial:crc-specific research projectsenvironmentwill the scientific environment in which the work will be done contribute to the probability of success? are the institutional support, equipment, and other physical resources available to the investigators adequate for the project proposed? will the project benefit from unique features of the scientific environment, subject populations, or collaborative arrangements?if proposed, are the administrative, data coordinating, enrollment and laboratory/testing centers, appropriate for the trial proposed?does the application adequately address the capability and ability to conduct the trial at the proposed site(s) or centers? are the plans to add or drop enrollment centers, as needed, appropriate?if international site(s) is/are proposed, does the application adequately address the complexity of executing the clinical trial?if multi-sites/centers, is there evidence of the ability of the individual site or center to: (1) enroll the proposed numbers; (2) adhere to the protocol; (3) collect and transmit data in an accurate and timely fashion; and, (4) operate within the proposed organizational structure?specific for this foacrc-specific research projects• does the application include acceptable evidence for the capabilities of the research laboratories to be used in center-specific projects?additional review criteriaas applicable for the project proposed, reviewers will evaluate the following additional items while determining scientific and technical merit, and in providing an overall impact score, but will not give separate scores for these items.study timelineis the study timeline described in detail, taking into account start-up activities, the anticipated rate of enrollment, and planned follow-up assessment? is the projected timeline feasible and well justified? does the project incorporate efficiencies and utilize existing resources (e.g., ctsas, practice-based research networks, electronic medical records, administrative database, or patient registries) to increase the efficiency of participant enrollment and data collection, as appropriate?are potential challenges and corresponding solutions discussed (e.g., strategies that can be implemented in the event of enrollment shortfalls)?protections for human subjectsfor research that involves human subjects but does not involve one of the categories of research that are exempt under 45 cfr part 46, the committee will evaluate the justification for involvement of human subjects and the proposed protections from research risk relating to their participation according to the following five review criteria: 1) risk to subjects, 2) adequacy of protection against risks, 3) potential benefits to the subjects and others, 4) importance of the knowledge to be gained, and 5) data and safety monitoring for clinical trials.for research that involves human subjects and meets the criteria for one or more of the categories of research that are exempt under 45 cfr part 46, the committee will evaluate: 1) the justification for the exemption, 2) human subjects involvement and characteristics, and 3) sources of materials. for additional information on review of the human subjects section, please refer to the guidelines for the review of human subjects.inclusion of women, minorities, and individuals across the lifespanwhen the proposed project involves human subjects and/or nih-defined clinical research, the committee will evaluate the proposed plans for the inclusion (or exclusion) of individuals on the basis of sex/gender, race, and ethnicity, as well as the inclusion (or exclusion) of individuals of all ages (including children and older adults) to determine if it is justified in terms of the scientific goals and research strategy proposed. for additional information on review of the inclusion section, please refer to the guidelines for the review of inclusion in clinical research.vertebrate animalsthe committee will evaluate the involvement of live vertebrate animals as part of the scientific assessment according to the following criteria: (1) description of proposed procedures involving animals, including species, strains, ages, sex, and total number to be used; (2) justifications for the use of animals versus alternative models and for the appropriateness of the species proposed; (3) interventions to minimize discomfort, distress, pain and injury; and (4) justification for euthanasia method if not consistent with the avma guidelines for the euthanasia of animals. reviewers will assess the use of chimpanzees as they would any other application proposing the use of vertebrate animals. for additional information on review of the vertebrate animals section, please refer to the worksheet for review of the vertebrate animals section.biohazardsreviewers will assess whether materials or procedures proposed are potentially hazardous to research personnel and/or the environment, and if needed, determine whether adequate protection is proposed.resubmissionsnot applicablerenewalsnot applicablerevisionsnot applicableas applicable for the project proposed, reviewers will consider each of the following items, but will not give scores for these items, and should not consider them in providing an overall impact score.applications from foreign organizationsnot applicable.select agent researchreviewers will assess the information provided in this section of the application, including 1) the select agent(s) to be used in the proposed research, 2) the registration status of all entities where select agent(s) will be used, 3) the procedures that will be used to monitor possession use and transfer of select agent(s), and 4) plans for appropriate biosafety, biocontainment, and security of the select agent(s).resource sharing plansnote: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023, the data sharing plan and genomic data sharing plan (gds) will not be evaluated at time of review.reviewers will comment on whether the resource sharing plan(s) (i.e., sharing model organisms) or the rationale for not sharing the resources, is reasonable.authentication of key biological and/or chemical resources:for projects involving key biological and/or chemical resources, reviewers will comment on the brief plans proposed for identifying and ensuring the validity of those resources.budget and period of supportreviewers will consider whether the budget and the requested period of support are fully justified and reasonable in relation to the proposed research.2. review and selection processapplications will be evaluated for scientific and technical merit by (an) appropriate scientific review group(s) convened by national institute of allergy and infectious diseases, in accordance with nih peer review policy and procedures, using the stated review criteria. assignment to a scientific review group will be shown in the era commons.as part of the scientific peer review, all applications will receive a written critique.applications may undergo a selection process in which only those applications deemed to have the highest scientific and technical merit (generally the top half of applications under review) will be discussed and assigned an overall impact score.appeals of initial peer review will not be accepted for applications submitted in response to this foa.applications will be assigned to the appropriate nih institute or center. applications will compete for available funds with all other recommended applications submitted in response to this foa. following initial peer review, recommended applications will receive a second level of review by the national advisory allergy and infectious diseases council. the following will be considered in making funding decisions:3. anticipated announcement and award datesafter the peer review of the application is completed, the pd/pi will be able to access his or her summary statement (written critique) via the era commons. refer to part 1 for dates for peer review, advisory council review, and earliest start date.information regarding the disposition of applications is available in the nih grants policy statement.1. award noticesif the application is under consideration for funding, nih will request "just-in-time" information from the applicant as described in the nih grants policy statement.a formal notification in the form of a notice of award (noa) will be provided to the applicant organization for successful applications. the noa signed by the grants management officer is the authorizing document and will be sent via email to the recipient's business official.recipients must comply with any funding restrictions described in section iv.5. funding restrictions. selection of an application for award is not an authorization to begin performance. any costs incurred before receipt of the noa are at the recipient's risk. these costs may be reimbursed only to the extent considered allowable pre-award costs.any application awarded in response to this foa will be subject to terms and conditions found on the award conditions and information for nih grants website. this includes any recent legislation and policy applicable to awards that is highlighted on this website.individual awards are based on the application submitted to, and as approved by, the nih and are subject to the ic-specific terms and conditions identified in the noa.clinicaltrials.gov: if an award provides for one or more clinical trials. by law (title viii, section 801 of public law 110-85), the "responsible party" must register and submit results information for certain “applicable clinical trials” on the clinicaltrials.gov protocol registration and results system information website (https://register.clinicaltrials.gov). nih expects registration and results reporting of all trials whether required under the law or not. for more information, see https://grants.nih.gov/policy/clinical-trials/reporting/index.htminstitutional review board or independent ethics committee approval: recipient institutions must ensure that all protocols are reviewed by their irb or iec. to help ensure the safety of participants enrolled in nih-funded studies, the recipient must provide nih copies of documents related to all major changes in the status of ongoing protocols.data and safety monitoring requirements: the nih policy for data and safety monitoring requires oversight and monitoring of all nih-conducted or -supported human biomedical and behavioral intervention studies (clinical trials) to ensure the safety of participants and the validity and integrity of the data. further information concerning these requirements is found at http://grants.nih.gov/grants/policy/hs/data_safety.htm and in the application instructions (sf424 (r&r) and phs 398).investigational new drug or investigational device exemption requirements: consistent with federal regulations, clinical research projects involving the use of investigational therapeutics, vaccines, or other medical interventions (including licensed products and devices for a purpose other than that for which they were licensed) in humans under a research protocol must be performed under a food and drug administration (fda) investigational new drug (ind) or investigational device exemption (ide).2. administrative and national policy requirementsall nih grant and cooperative agreement awards include the nih grants policy statement as part of the noa. for these terms of award, see the nih grants policy statement part ii: terms and conditions of nih grant awards, subpart a: general and part ii: terms and conditions of nih grant awards, subpart b: terms and conditions for specific types of grants, recipients, and activities, including of note, but not limited to:if a recipient is successful and receives a notice of award, in accepting the award, the recipient agrees that any activities under the award are subject to all provisions currently in effect or implemented during the period of the award, other department regulations and policies in effect at the time of the award, and applicable statutory provisions.should the applicant organization successfully compete for an award, recipients of federal financial assistance (ffa) from hhs must administer their programs in compliance with federal civil rights laws that prohibit discrimination on the basis of race, color, national origin, disability, age and, in some circumstances, religion, conscience, and sex (including gender identity, sexual orientation, and pregnancy). this includes ensuring programs are accessible to persons with limited english proficiency and persons with disabilities. the hhs office for civil rights provides guidance on complying with civil rights laws enforced by hhs. please see https://www.hhs.gov/civil-rights/for-providers/provider-obligations/index.html and https://www.hhs.gov/civil-rights/for-individuals/nondiscrimination/index.htmlhhs recognizes that research projects are often limited in scope for many reasons that are nondiscriminatory, such as the principal investigator’s scientific interest, funding limitations, recruitment requirements, and other considerations. thus, criteria in research protocols that target or exclude certain populations are warranted where nondiscriminatory justifications establish that such criteria are appropriate with respect to the health or safety of the subjects, the scientific study design, or the purpose of the research. for additional guidance regarding how the provisions apply to nih grant programs, please contact the scientific/research contact that is identified in section vii under agency contacts of this foa.please contact the hhs office for civil rights for more information about obligations and prohibitions under federal civil rights laws at https://www.hhs.gov/ocr/about-us/contact-us/index.html or call 1-800-368-1019 or tdd 1-800-537-7697.in accordance with the statutory provisions contained in section 872 of the duncan hunter national defense authorization act of fiscal year 2009 (public law 110-417), nih awards will be subject to the federal awardee performance and integrity information system (fapiis) requirements. fapiis requires federal award making officials to review and consider information about an applicant in the designated integrity and performance system (currently fapiis) prior to making an award. an applicant, at its option, may review information in the designated integrity and performance systems accessible through fapiis and comment on any information about itself that a federal agency previously entered and is currently in fapiis. the federal awarding agency will consider any comments by the applicant, in addition to other information in fapiis, in making a judgement about the applicant’s integrity, business ethics, and record of performance under federal awards when completing the review of risk posed by applicants as described in 45 cfr part 75.205 and 2 cfr part 200.206 “federal awarding agency review of risk posed by applicants.” this provision will apply to all nih grants and cooperative agreements except fellowships.the following special terms of award are in addition to, and not in lieu of, otherwise applicable u.s. office of management and budget (omb) administrative guidelines, u.s. department of health and human services (dhhs) grant administration regulations at 45 cfr part 75 and 2 cfr part 200, and other hhs, phs, and nih grant administration policies. the administrative and funding instrument used for this program will be the cooperative agreement, an "assistance" mechanism (rather than an "acquisition" mechanism), in which substantial nih programmatic involvement with the recipients is anticipated during the performance of the activities. under the cooperative agreement, the nih purpose is to support and stimulate the recipients' activities by involvement in and otherwise working jointly with the recipients in a partnership role; it is not to assume direction, prime responsibility, or a dominant role in the activities. consistent with this concept, the dominant role and prime responsibility resides with the recipients for the project as a whole, although specific tasks and activities may be shared among the recipients and the nih as defined below.the pd(s)/pi(s) will have the primary responsibility for:data sharing responsibilitiesnih staff have substantial programmatic involvement that is above and beyond the normal stewardship role in awards, as described below:areas of joint responsibility include:dispute resolution:any disagreements that may arise in scientific or programmatic matters (within the scope of the award) between recipients and the nih may be brought to dispute resolution. a dispute resolution panel composed of three members will be convened. it will have three members: a designee of the steering committee chosen without nih staff voting, one nih designee, and a third designee with expertise in the relevant area who is chosen by the other two; in the case of individual disagreement, the first member may be chosen by the individual recipient. this special dispute resolution procedure does not alter the recipient's right to appeal an adverse action that is otherwise appealable in accordance with phs regulation 42 cfr part 50, subpart d and dhhs regulation 45 cfr part 16.3. data management and sharingnote: the nih policy for data management and sharing is effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023.consistent with the nih policy for data management and sharing, when data management and sharing is applicable to the award, recipients will be required to adhere to the data management and sharing requirements as outlined in the nih grants policy statement. upon the approval of a data management and sharing plan, it is required for recipients to implement the plan as described.4. reportingwhen multiple years are involved, recipients will be required to submit the research performance progress report (rppr) annually and financial statements as required in the nih grants policy statement.a final rppr, invention statement, and the expenditure data portion of the federal financial report are required for closeout of an award, as described in the nih grants policy statement. nih foas outline intended research goals and objectives. post award, nih will review and measure performance based on the details and outcomes that are shared within the rppr, as described at 45 cfr part 75.301 and 2 cfr part 200.301.the federal funding accountability and transparency act of 2006 (transparency act), includes a requirement for recipients of federal grants to report information about first-tier subawards and executive compensation under federal assistance awards issued in fy2011 or later. all recipients of applicable nih grants and cooperative agreements are required to report to the federal subaward reporting system (fsrs) available at www.fsrs.gov on all subawards over $25,000. see the nih grants policy statement for additional information on this reporting requirement.in accordance with the regulatory requirements provided at 45 cfr 75.113 and appendix xii to 45 cfr part 75, recipients that have currently active federal grants, cooperative agreements, and procurement contracts from all federal awarding agencies with a cumulative total value greater than $10,000,000 for any period of time during the period of performance of a federal award, must report and maintain the currency of information reported in the system for award management (sam) about civil, criminal, and administrative proceedings in connection with the award or performance of a federal award that reached final disposition within the most recent five-year period. the recipient must also make semiannual disclosures regarding such proceedings. proceedings information will be made publicly available in the designated integrity and performance system (currently fapiis). this is a statutory requirement under section 872 of public law 110-417, as amended (41 u.s.c. 2313). as required by section 3010 of public law 111-212, all information posted in the designated integrity and performance system on or after april 15, 2011, except past performance reviews required for federal procurement contracts, will be publicly available. full reporting requirements and procedures are found in appendix xii to 45 cfr part 75 – award term and conditions for recipient integrity and performance matters.we encourage inquiries concerning this funding opportunity and welcome the opportunity to answer questions from potential applicants.era service desk (questions regarding assist, era commons, application errors and warnings, documenting system problems that threaten submission by the due date, and post-submission issues)finding help online: https://www.era.nih.gov/need-help (preferred method of contact) telephone: 301-402-7469 or 866-504-9552 (toll free)general grants information (questions regarding application instructions, application processes, and nih grant resources) email: grantsinfo@nih.gov (preferred method of contact) telephone: 301-637-3015grants.gov customer support (questions regarding grants.gov registration and workspace) contact center telephone: 800-518-4726 email: support@grants.govgang dong, md phd national institute of allergy and infectious diseases (niaid) telephone: 240-627-3508 email: gdong@niaid.nih.govpoonam tewary, ph.d. national institute of allergy and infectious diseases (niaid) telephone: 301-761-7219 email: poonam.tewary@nih.govnicole gormley national institute of allergy and infectious diseases (niaid) telephone: 301-761-5449 email: nicole.gormley2@nih.govrecently issued trans-nih policy notices may affect your application submission. a full list of policy notices published by nih is provided in the nih guide for grants and contracts. all awards are subject to the terms and conditions, cost principles, and other considerations described in the nih grants policy statement.awards are made under the authorization of sections 301 and 405 of the public health service act as amended (42 usc 241 and 284) and under federal regulations 42 cfr part 52 and 45 cfr part 75 and 2 cfr part 200.weekly toc for this announcement nih funding opportunities and noticesnote: for help accessing pdf, rtf, ms word, excel, powerpoint, audio or video files, see help downloading files.