Short Courses on Innovative Methodologies and Approaches in the Behavioral and Social Sciences (R25 Independent Clinical Trial Not Allowed)
https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/rfa-files/RFA-OD-23-003.html
national institutes of health (nih)office of behavioral and social sciences research (obssr) national eye institute (nei) national institute of arthritis and musculoskeletal and skin diseases (niams) eunice kennedy shriver national institute of child health and human development (nichd) national institute of diabetes and digestive and kidney diseases (niddk) national institute on drug abuse (nida) national institute of mental health (nimh) national center for complementary and integrative health (nccih) national cancer institute (nci) all applications to this funding opportunity announcement should fall within the mission of the institutes/centers. obssr and the following nih offices may co-fund applications assigned to those institutes/centers. division of program coordination, planning and strategic initiatives, office of disease prevention (odp)national eye institute (nei)national institute of arthritis and musculoskeletal and skin diseases (niams)eunice kennedy shriver national institute of child health and human development (nichd)national institute of diabetes and digestive and kidney diseases (niddk)national institute on drug abuse (nida)national institute of mental health (nimh)national center for complementary and integrative health (nccih)national cancer institute (nci)all applications to this funding opportunity announcement should fall within the mission of the institutes/centers. obssr and the following nih offices may co-fund applications assigned to those institutes/centers.division of program coordination, planning and strategic initiatives, office of disease prevention (odp)r25 education projectsnot-od-22-189 - implementation details for the nih data management and sharing policynot-od-22-195 - new nih "forms-h" grant application forms and instructions coming for due dates on or after january 25, 2023not-od-22-198 - implementation changes for genomic data sharing plans included with applications due on or after january 25, 2023not-od-19-109 - requirement for orcid ids for individuals supported by research training, fellowship, research education, and career development awards beginning in fy 2020.not-od-23-012 - reminder: forms-h grant application forms & instructions must be used for due dates on or after january 25, 2023 - new grant application instructions now availablesee section iii. 3. additional information on eligibility.the nih research education program (r25) supports research education activities in the mission areas of the nih. the overarching goal of this r25 program is to support educational activities that complement and/or enhance the training of a workforce to meet the nation’s biomedical, behavioral and clinical research needs.to accomplish the stated over-arching goal, this foa will support creative educational activities with a primary focus on:march 17, 2023all applications are due by 5:00 pm local time of applicant organization.applicants are encouraged to apply early to allow adequate time to make any corrections to errors found in the application during the submission process by the due date.not applicableit is critical that applicants follow the instructions in the research (r) instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, except where instructed to do otherwise (in this foa or in a notice from nih guide for grants and contracts).conformance to all requirements (both in the application guide and the foa) is required and strictly enforced. applicants must read and follow all application instructions in the application guide as well as any program-specific instructions noted in section iv. when the program-specific instructions deviate from those in the application guide, follow the program-specific instructions.applications that do not comply with these instructions may be delayed or not accepted for review.there are several options available to submit your application through grants.gov to nih and department of health and human services partners. you must use one of these submission options to access the application forms for this opportunity.the nih research education program (r25) supports research educational activities that complement other formal training programs in the mission areas of the nih institutes and centers.the overarching goal of this r25 program is to support educational activities that complement and/or enhance the training of a workforce to meet the nation’s biomedical, behavioral and clinical research needs.to accomplish the stated over-arching goal, this foa will support creative educational activities with a primary focus on:this rfa is to support courses for skills development in cross-cutting methodologies and analytics that are needed to advance behavioral and social sciences research (bssr) but are not well-addressed by existing educational programs widely available to the bssr community. a definition of bssr can be found at (https://obssr.od.nih.gov/about/bssr-definition/). short courses supported by this rfa should develop, implement, evaluate and disseminate education and training focused on innovative methods for bssr. methodological domains of focus include but are not limited to innovative data collection methodologies and analytic techniques, analysis and linking of big data, or needed but underutilized designs to advance research across the translational spectrum.proposed educational programs should be integrative, both in the transdisciplinary nature of the skills and approaches taught and in applicability across a wide range of bssr areas. the content of the course should focus on knowledge and skills necessary for the advancement of behavioral and social sciences and/or the integration of bssr with other areas of science and technology. content should not be limited to specific disease applications but rather focus on generally applicable research methodologies and analytics crucial for more advanced bssr. applicants are expected to describe the learning objectives for the proposed short course, how the proposed course will enhance existing skills and capabilities of the target participants and how the impact of the learning will be measured. in addition, applicants must describe how this training fills a unique and important skills gap in bssr that is not already well covered by existing training courses or curricula. applicants are strongly encouraged to review and document existing courses similar to the short course being proposed and specify why any similar coursesare insufficient to address the training need. over the period of support, it is expected that the course will be refined, improved, and sufficiently well documented developed and implemented to extend beyond in-person attendance, and beyond the end of the project period (e.g. videos, slides, course materials). the course should be able to benefit more than the limited number that can attend in person. the development and implementation of fully or predominantly remote training programs is encouraged.priority will be given to courses that address an important and cross-cutting educational need, that fill a gap in the field not already well addressed by other opportunities, and include a plan for dissemination and sustainability of the training both during and beyond the funding period.the goal is for the short courses supported by this rfa to build the capacity of the field. in achieving that goal, applicants are encouraged to incorporate methods and models that have the potential to reach an audience that is broader than the attendees. for example, a "train the trainers" model is highly encouraged. with this model, participants are not only taught the research skills but also but taught how to teach the material themselves, provided with the tools and resources needed to deliver these trainings in their own institutions (e.g., curricula, selected readings, slide sets, etc.), and receive ongoing technical and evaluation support. another example is developing remote learning courses or taking the course to the participants at different institutions, thereby reducing travel costs as well as expanding the reach of the program. training courses can be of varying lengths but the duration of the training and the format (online, in-person, or some combination) must be justified based on the learning objectives. even if the training is primarily in-person, online adjuncts to the courses are encouraged (i.e., pre-meeting preparation materials and/or post-meeting support materials) and should be made available broadly. opportunities for attendees to sustain and continue learning beyond the course are strongly encouraged. such opportunities might take the form of ongoing mentorship, online discussion forums, listservs, or other formats.educational opportunities can either recur (the same course is repeated) or can be single-time opportunities (different courses occur over the course of the award period), depending on the needs of the scientific area. the format for course delivery may be in-person, online (e.g., massive open online course [mooc], interactive online teaching platform), or a hybrid of the two. skills development courses that are open educational resources (oers) are strongly encouraged. oers generally adhere to fair principles (findable, accessible, interoperable, and reproducible) and are freely available online.target participants can include those just starting their careers (e.g., graduate students, medical students, medical residents, postdoctoral fellows, early-stage investigators) as well as established investigators (e.g., mid- and late-career researchers) who need skills in new methods that can be applied to their research area. the nih expects all programs to foster the participation of individuals from diverse backgrounds, including individuals from underrepresented racial and ethnic groups, individuals with disabilities, women, and persons from disadvantaged backgrounds. see,notice of nih's interest in diversity, not-od-20-031. therefore, all applicants are strongly encouraged to involve a diverse group of faculty and mentors, and their applications must include a plan for recruiting prospective participants from underrepresented groups. in addition, applicants are strongly encouraged to consider how the methodologies and approaches being taught in the proposed course can be reliably and validly applied across diverse groups, as well as how to address potential structural influences and/or consequences for communities/subpopulations that are disproportionally impacted by disease burden.each application must include a plan to evaluate the activities proposed, as well as a plan for disseminating user-friendly course materials to the broader scientific community (see section iv, evaluation plan and dissemination plan).possible educational topics include but are not limited to the following:training in research approaches and methodologies should be relevant to a broad range of behavioral and social scientists. however, the short course must also be directly relevant to the priorities and mission of one or more of the participating institutes and centers. if the methods and approaches in the proposed course advance the behavioral and social science more broadly (not just applicable to one disease or age group), short courses may focus on educating researchers with a disease or life stage emphasis. applicants are encouraged to discuss the focus of their proposed short course with the relevant scientific contact before submitting to be sure the focus is consistent with the foa and aligned with the mission and priorities of the institute or center. please see below for additional institute and center priorities:nida specific languagethe mission of nida is to advance science on the causes and consequences of drug use and addiction and to apply that knowledge to improve individual and public health. nida is interested in supporting short courses to build a capacity in the field of observational/etiologic, prevention, treatment, and health services research to address substance use, substance misuse, and substance use disorder, and comorbid conditions including hiv, psychiatric disorders, and suicide. examples of educational topics of interest to nida include, but are not limited to:nccih specific languageniddk specific languageniams specific languagethe mission of the national institute of arthritis and musculoskeletal and skin diseases is to support research into the causes, treatment, and prevention of arthritis and musculoskeletal and skin diseases; the training of basic and clinical scientists to carry out this research; and the dissemination of information on research progress in these diseases.nei specific languageodp specific languageresearch education programs may complement ongoing research training and education occurring at the applicant institution, but the proposed educational experiences must be distinct from those training and education programs currently receiving federal support. r25 programs may augment institutional research training programs (e.g., t32, t90) but cannot be used to replace or circumvent ruth l. kirschstein national research service award (nrsa) programs.see section viii. other information for award authorities and regulations.grant: a support mechanism providing money, property, or both to an eligible entity to carry out an approved project or activity.not allowed: only accepting applications that do not propose clinical trial(s).need help determining whether you are doing a clinical trial?the number of awards is contingent upon nih appropriations and the submission of a sufficient number of meritorious applications.nih intends to fund an estimate of 3-4 awards, corresponding to a total of $1 million, for fiscal year 2024 and 2026. future year amounts will depend on annual appropriations.obssr intends to commit $1 million in fys 2024 and 2026 to fund 3-4 awards.application budgets are limited to $200,000 direct costs per year and need to reflect the actual needs of the proposed project.the maximum project period is 4 years.individuals designing, directing, and implementing the research education program may request salary and fringe benefits appropriate for the person months devoted to the program. salaries requested may not exceed the levels commensurate with the institution's policy for similar positions and may not exceed the congressionally mandated cap. (if mentoring interactions and other activities with participants are considered a regular part of an individual's academic duties, then any costs associated with the mentoring and other interactions with participants are not allowable costs from grant funds).participants may be compensated for participation in activities specifically required by the proposed research education program, if sufficiently justified. participant costs must be itemized in the proposed budget.allowable participant costs depend on the educational level/career status of the individuals to be selected to participate in the program.while generally not an allowable cost, with strong justification, participants in the research education program may receive per diem unless such costs are furnished as part of the registration fee. participants may also receive funds to defray partial tuition and other education-related expenses.expenses for foreign travel must be exceptionally well justified.individuals supported by nih training and career development mechanisms (k, t, or f awards) may receive, and indeed are encouraged to receive, educational experiences supported by an r25 program, as participants, but may not receive salary or stipend supplementation from a research education program.because the r25 program is not intended as a substitute for an nrsa institutional training program (e.g.,t32), costs to support full-time participants (supported for 40 hours/week for a continuous, 12-month period) are not allowable.consultant costs, equipment, supplies, travel for key persons, and other program-related expenses may be included in the proposed budget. these expenses must be justified as specifically required by the proposed program and must not duplicate items generally available at the applicant institution.applicants must budget for travel costs for the pd/pi to attend a two-day pi meeting in each year of the support period. the meeting will be held in bethesda, mdindirect costs (also known as facilities & administrative [f&a] costs) are reimbursed at 8% of modified total direct costs (exclusive of tuition and fees, expenditures for equipment and consortium costs in excess of $25,000), rather than on the basis of a negotiated rate agreement.nih grants policies as described in the nih grants policy statement will apply to the applications submitted and awards made from this foa.1. eligible applicantshigher education institutionsthe following types of higher education institutions are always encouraged to apply for nih support as public or private institutions of higher education:nonprofits other than institutions of higher educationfor-profit organizationsgovernmentsfederal governmentsotherthe sponsoring institution must assure support for the proposed program. appropriate institutional commitment to the program includes the provision of adequate staff, facilities, and educational resources that can contribute to the planned program.institutions with existing ruth l. kirschstein national research service award (nrsa) institutional training grants (e.g., t32) or other federally funded training programs may apply for a research education grant provided that the proposed educational experiences are distinct from those training programs receiving federal support. in many cases, it is anticipated that the proposed research education program will complement ongoing research training occurring at the applicant institution.non-domestic (non-u.s.) entities (foreign institutions) are not eligible to applynon-domestic (non-u.s.) components of u.s. organizations are not eligible to apply.foreign components, as defined in the nih grants policy statement, are not allowed.applicant organizationsapplicant organizations must complete and maintain the following registrations as described in the sf 424 (r&r) application guide to be eligible to apply for or receive an award. all registrations must be completed prior to the application being submitted. registration can take 6 weeks or more, so applicants should begin the registration process as soon as possible. the nih policy on late submission of grant applications states that failure to complete registrations in advance of a due date is not a valid reason for a late submission.program directors/principal investigators (pd(s)/pi(s))all pd(s)/pi(s) must have an era commons account. pd(s)/pi(s) should work with their organizational officials to either create a new account or to affiliate their existing account with the applicant organization in era commons. if the pd/pi is also the organizational signing official, they must have two distinct era commons accounts, one for each role. obtaining an era commons account can take up to 2 weeks.any individual(s) with the skills, knowledge, and resources necessary to carry out the proposed research as the program director(s)/principal investigator(s) (pd(s)/pi(s)) is invited to work with his/her organization to develop an application for support. individuals from diverse backgrounds, including underrepresented racial and ethnic groups, individuals with disabilities, and women are always encouraged to apply for nih support. see, reminder: notice of nih's encouragement of applications supporting individuals from underrepresented ethnic and racial groups as well as individuals with disabilities, not-od-22-019.for institutions/organizations proposing multiple pds/pis, visit the multiple program director/principal investigator policy and submission details in the senior/key person profile (expanded) component of the sf424 (r&r) application guide.2. cost sharingthis foa does not require cost sharing as defined in the nih grants policy statement.3. additional information on eligibilitynumber of applicationsapplicant organizations may submit more than one application, provided that each application is scientifically distinct.the nih will not accept duplicate or highly overlapping applications under review at the same time per 2.3.7.4 submission of resubmission application. this means that the nih will not accept:program facultyresearchers from diverse backgrounds, including individuals from underrepresented racial and ethnic groups, persons with disabilities, and women are encouraged to participate as preceptors/mentors. mentors should have research expertise and experience relevant to the proposed program. mentors must be committed to continue their involvement throughout the total period of the mentee’s participation in this award.participantsunless strongly justified on the basis of exceptional relevance to nih, research education programs should be used primarily for the education of u.s. citizens and permanent residents.1. requesting an application packagethe application forms package specific to this opportunity must be accessed through assist, grants.gov workspace or an institutional system-to-system solution. links to apply using assist or grants.gov workspace are available in part 1 of this foa. see your administrative office for instructions if you plan to use an institutional system-to-system solution.2. content and form of application submissionit is critical that applicants follow the instructions in the research (r) instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, except where instructed in this funding opportunity announcement to do otherwise. conformance to the requirements in the application guide is required and strictly enforced. applications that are out of compliance with these instructions will not be reviewed.letter of intentalthough a letter of intent is not required, is not binding, and does not enter into the review of a subsequent application, the information that it contains allows ic staff to estimate the potential review workload and plan the review.by the date listed in part 1. overview information, prospective applicants are asked to submit a letter of intent that includes the following information:the letter of intent should be sent to:erica l. spotts, ph.d. telephone: 301-594-2105 email: spottse@mail.nih.govthe following section supplements the instructions found in the sf424 (r&r) application guide and should be used for preparing an application to this foa.follow all instructions provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.follow all instructions provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.follow all instructions provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide with the following additional modifications:facilities & other resources. describe the educational environment, including the facilities, laboratories, participating departments, computer services, and any other resources to be used in the development and implementation of the proposed program. list all thematically related sources of support for research training and education following the format for current and pending support.other attachments.an advisory committee is not a required component of a research education program. however, if an advisory committee is intended, provide a plan for the appointment of an advisory committee to monitor progress of the research education program. the composition, roles, responsibilities, and desired expertise of committee members, frequency of committee meetings, and other relevant information should be included. describe how the advisory committee will evaluate the overall effectiveness of the program. proposed advisory committee members should be named in the application if they have been invited to participate at the time the application is submitted. renewal applications with advisory committees should include the names of all committee members during the past project period. please name your file “advisory_committee.pdf”.the filename provided for each “other attachment” will be the name used for the bookmark in the electronic application in era commons.follow all instructions provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.follow all instructions provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide with the following additional modifications:follow all instructions provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed, with the following additional instructions:research strategyresearch strategy section must be used to upload the research education program plan, which must include the following components described below:proposed research education program. while the proposed research education program may complement ongoing research training and education occurring at the applicant institution, the proposed educational experiences must be distinct from those research training and research education programs currently receiving federal support. when research training programs are on-going in the same department, the applicant organization should clearly distinguish between the activities in the proposed research education program and the research training supported by the training program.the “value added” of the proposed, r25-supported short course should be described. if existing training is widely available, applicants should clearly distinguish between the activities in the proposed research education short course and the existing training opportunities, and justify how the proposed training fills an important gap.describe the scientific need for and timeliness of the educational program, the potential impact for advancing behavioral and social science research (both in advancing the science and the breadth of science being advanced), how it complements existing training or didactic opportunities (as appropriate), and the rationale for the career stage(s) of the participants in the proposed course. provide programmatic detail on the course objectives, specific activities proposed (e.g., curricula, seminars, on-line, mentoring), and how the course objectives will be measured.describe expected processes for: (a) planning and implementing the proposed educational activities, (b) if applicable, coordinating among existing training or research activities available at a site or across multiple sites, (c) dissemination and sustainability of course material after completion of the period of support.describe how the course may be modified over time based on early course evaluation, participant feedback, and/or new developments in the field. the goal of these modifications should be to ensure that the research education continues to provide cutting-edge opportunities that are responsive to the participants’ needs and continues to meet the overall learning objectives.describe the proposed structure of the research education. it is expected that a combination of learning approaches be considered to achieve the educational aim (e.g., online courses, chat rooms, regularly occurring webinars, one-on-one and small group discussions, in-person training). as appropriate to the goals of the course, applicants are encouraged to take advantage of contemporary communication strategies, such as distance learning and social networking. training-the-trainer approaches should include strategies for providing ongoing support and assistance to the newly trained trainers, and for providing checks on training fidelity in this distributive training model.in addition, for renewal applications, the progress report should describe the results of the course evaluation (e.g. knowledge/skills acquired, progress of education in the field), the number and characteristics of participants in the past period of support, materials disseminated, and any changes in administration, design/objectives, or targeted participant groups during the prior funding period. the description of the proposed research skills training for the next funding period should highlight how the program continues to offer research education at the scientific cutting-edge as well as any changes in activities that are planned to maintain the currency of the research education offered.renewal applications should describe the continuing need for the research education to develop a well-trained pool of researchers, and a clear plan for sustainability or dissemination of the course by the end of the period of support.program director/principal investigator. describe arrangements for administration of the program. provide evidence that the program director/principal investigator is actively engaged in research and/or teaching in an area related to the mission of nih, and can organize, administer, monitor, and evaluate the research education program. for programs proposing multiple pds/pis, describe the complementary and integrated expertise of the pds/pis, their leadership approach, and governance appropriate for the planned project.program faculty. researchers from diverse backgrounds, including individuals from underrepresented racial and ethnic groups, persons with disabilities, and women are encouraged to participate as program faculty. faculty should have research expertise and experience relevant to the proposed program and demonstrate a history of, or the potential for, their intended roles.program participants. applications must identify the career levels for which the proposed program is planned.applications must describe the intended participants, and the eligibility criteria and/or specific educational background characteristics that are essential for participation in the proposed research education program.institutional environment and commitment. describe any additional aspects of the institutional environment and commitment not addressed under “facilities & other resources” or the required “institutional commitment letter of support,” described below. appropriate institutional commitment should include the provision of adequate staff, facilities, and educational resources that can contribute to the planned research education program. this section should not duplicate information provided elsewhere.if multiple sites are proposed, they must be justified in terms of the research education experiences that will be provided, and adequate plans must be provided for coordination and communication between multiple sites. describe approaches to minimize barriers for participants nationwide to attend, whether in person or remotely.recruitment plan to enhance diversity :the applicant must provide a recruitment plan to enhance diversity. include outreach strategies and activities designed to recruit prospective participants from underrepresented groups, describe the specific efforts to be undertaken by the program and how the proposed plan reflects past experiences in recruiting individuals from underrepresented groups.renewal applications must include a detailed account of experiences in recruiting individuals from underrepresented groups during the previous funding period, including successful and unsuccessful recruitment strategies.applications lacking a recruitment plan to enhance diversity will not be reviewed.plan for instruction in the responsible conduct of research. all applications must include a plan to fulfill nih requirements for instruction in the responsible conduct of research (rcr). the plan must address the five, required instructional components outlined in the nih policy: 1) format - the required format of instruction, i.e., face-to-face lectures, coursework, and/or real-time discussion groups (a plan with only on-line instruction is not acceptable); 2) subject matter - the breadth of subject matter, e.g., conflict of interest, authorship, data management, human subjects and animal use, laboratory safety, research misconduct, research ethics; 3) faculty participation - the role of the program faculty in the instruction; 4) duration of instruction - the number of contact hours of instruction, taking into consideration the duration of the program; and 5) frequency of instruction – instruction must occur during each career stage and at least once every four years. see also not-od-10-019 and not-od-22-055. the plan should be appropriate and reasonable for the nature and duration of the proposed program. renewal (type 2) applications must, in addition, describe any changes in formal instruction over the past project period and plans to address any weaknesses in the current instruction plan. all participating faculty who served as course directors, speakers, lecturers, and/or discussion leaders during the past project period must be named in the application.applications lacking a plan for instruction in responsible conduct of research will not be reviewed.evaluation plan. applications must include a plan for evaluating the activities supported by the award. the application must specify baseline metrics (e.g., numbers, educational levels, and demographic characteristics of participants), as well as measures to gauge the short or long-term success of the research education award in achieving its objectives. wherever appropriate, applicants are encouraged to obtain feedback from participants to help identify weaknesses and to provide suggestions for improvements.depending on the length of the course, applicants may want to consider a strategy for ongoing follow-up evaluationdissemination plan. a specific plan must be provided to disseminate nationally any findings resulting from or materials developed under the auspices of the research education program, e.g., sharing course curricula and related materials via web postings, presentations at scientific meetings, workshops.applicants must describe how they will make the materials developed under the auspices of the research education program widely available and disseminate the materials to the relevant behavioral and social science research community. examples of a dissemination plan might include but are not limited to, deploying a train-the-trainer model, sharing course curricula and related materials via web postings, conducting preconference workshops, integrating the curricula into graduate and/or postgraduate training programs, and/or developing moocs or other interactive online training resources.letters of supporta letter of institutional commitment must be attached as part of letters of support (see section above:”institutional environment and commitment."resource sharing planindividuals are required to comply with the instructions for the resource sharing plans as provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, with the following modification:when relevant, applications are expected to include a software dissemination plan if support for development, maintenance, or enhancement of software is requested in the application. there is no prescribed single license for software produced. however, the software dissemination plan should address, as appropriate, the following goals:appendixonly limited appendix materials are allowed. follow the instructions for the appendix as described in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.phs human subjects and clinical trials informationwhen involving human subjects research, clinical research, and/or nih-defined clinical trials (and when applicable, clinical trials research experience) follow all instructions for the phs human subjects and clinical trials information form in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, with the following additional instructions:if you answered “yes” to the question “are human subjects involved?” on the r&r other project information form, you must include at least one human subjects study record using the study record: phs human subjects and clinical trials information form or delayed onset study record.study record: phs human subjects and clinical trials informationall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.delayed onset studynote: delayed onset does not apply to a study that can be described but will not start immediately (i.e., delayed start). all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.foreign institutionsforeign (non-u.s.) institutions must follow policies described in the nih grants policy statement, and procedures for foreign institutions described throughout the sf424 (r&r) application guide.3. unique entity identifier and system for award management (sam)see part 1. section iii.1 for information regarding the requirement for obtaining a unique entity identifier and for completing and maintaining active registrations in system for award management (sam), nato commercial and government entity (ncage) code (if applicable), era commons, and grants.gov.4. submission dates and timespart i. overview information contains information about key dates and times. applicants are encouraged to submit applications before the due date to ensure they have time to make any application corrections that might be necessary for successful submission. when a submission date falls on a weekend or federal holiday, the application deadline is automatically extended to the next business day.organizations must submit applications to grants.gov (the online portal to find and apply for grants across all federal agencies). applicants must then complete the submission process by tracking the status of the application in the era commons, nih’s electronic system for grants administration. nih and grants.gov systems check the application against many of the application instructions upon submission. errors must be corrected and a changed/corrected application must be submitted to grants.gov on or before the application due date and time. if a changed/corrected application is submitted after the deadline, the application will be considered late. applications that miss the due date and time are subjected to the nih policy on late application submission.applicants are responsible for viewing their application before the due date in the era commons to ensure accurate and successful submission.information on the submission process and a definition of on-time submission are provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.5. intergovernmental review (e.o. 12372)this initiative is not subject to intergovernmental review.6. funding restrictionsall nih awards are subject to the terms and conditions, cost principles, and other considerations described in the nih grants policy statement.pre-award costs are allowable only as described in the nih grants policy statement.7. other submission requirements and informationapplications must be submitted electronically following the instructions described in the sf424 (r&r) application guide. paper applications will not be accepted.applicants must complete all required registrations before the application due date. section iii. eligibility information contains information about registration.for assistance with your electronic application or for more information on the electronic submission process, visit how to apply – application guide. if you encounter a system issue beyond your control that threatens your ability to complete the submission process on-time, you must follow the dealing with system issues guidance. for assistance with application submission, contact the application submission contacts in section vii.important reminders:all pd(s)/pi(s) must include their era commons id in the credential field of the senior/key person profile form. failure to register in the commons and to include a valid pd/pi commons id in the credential field will prevent the successful submission of an electronic application to nih.the applicant organization must ensure that the unique entity identifier provided on the application is the same identifier used in the organization’s profile in the era commons and for the system for award management. additional information may be found in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.see more tips for avoiding common errors.upon receipt, applications will be evaluated for completeness and compliance with application instructions by the center for scientific review and responsiveness by components of participating organizations, nih. applications that are incomplete, non-compliant and/or nonresponsive will not be reviewed.in order to expedite review, applicants are requested to notify the {ic} referral office by email at {xxxx@mail.nih.gov} when the application has been submitted. please include the foa number and title, pd(s)/pi(s) name(s), and title of the application.requests of $500,000 or more for direct costs in any yearnot applicableapplicants are required to follow the instructions for post-submission materials, as described in the policy.1. criteriaonly the review criteria described below will be considered in the review process. applications submitted to the nih in support of the nih mission are evaluated for scientific and technical merit through the nih peer review system.for this particular announcement, note the following:the goal of this r25 program is to support educational activities that focus on cross-cutting methodologies and analytics that are needed to more rapidly advance behavioral and social sciences research (bssr) and are not already well-addressed by existing educational programs widely available to the research community.reviewers will provide an overall impact score to reflect their assessment of the likelihood for the project to strongly advance research education by fulfilling the goal of this r25 education program, in consideration of the following review criteria and additional review criteria, as applicable for the project proposed.reviewers will consider each of the review criteria below in the determination of scientific merit and give a separate score for each. an application does not need to be strong in all categories to be judged likely to have major scientific impact.significancedoes the proposed program address a key audience and an important aspect or important need in research education? is there convincing evidence in the application that the proposed program will significantly advance the stated goal of the program?to what extent will implementation of the proposed program advance skills in innovative methods and approaches relevant to bssr? is the program applicable across a range of disciplines, outcomes and age groups? is the educational opportunity justified and based on addressing important gaps in existing opportunities?investigator(s)is the pd/pi capable of providing both administrative and scientific leadership to the development and implementation of the proposed program? is there evidence that an appropriate level of effort will be devoted by the program leadership to ensure the program's intended goal is accomplished? if applicable, is there evidence that the participating faculty have experience in mentoring students and teaching science? if applicable, are the faculty good role models for the participants by nature of their scientific accomplishments? if the project is collaborative or multi-pd/pi, do the investigators have complementary and integrated expertise; are their leadership approach, governance, and organizational structure appropriate for the project?innovationtaking into consideration the nature of the proposed research education program, does the applicant make a strong case for this program effectively reaching an audience in need of the program’s offerings? where appropriate, is the proposed program developing or utilizing innovative approaches and latest best practices to improve the knowledge and/or skills of the intended audience?does the proposed program challenge and seek to shift current research education paradigms or clinical, behavioral, or public health practice, or address innovative hypotheses or critical barriers to progress in the field? does the proposed course provide state-of-the-art educational opportunities?approachdoes the proposed program clearly state its goals and objectives, including the educational level of the audience to be reached, the content to be conveyed, and the intended outcome? is there evidence that the program is based on a sound rationale, as well as sound educational concepts and principles? is the plan for evaluation sound and likely to provide information on the effectiveness of the program? if the proposed program will recruit participants, are the planned recruitment, retention, and follow-up (if applicable) activities adequate to ensure a highly qualified participant pool?does the proposed course integrate different disciplines? are potential problems, alternate strategies, and benchmarks for success provided? is there a plan for disseminating the course information to as large an audience as possible? are learning objectives provided, along with plans for enhancing the targeted skills? are there clear plans for refinement of the course in response to the changing needs over the period of support?environmentwill the scientific and educational environment of the proposed program contribute to its intended goals? is there a plan to take advantage of this environment to enhance the educational value of the program? is there tangible evidence of institutional commitment? is there evidence that the faculty have sufficient institutional support to create a sound educational environment for the participants? where appropriate, is there evidence of collaboration and buy-in among participating programs, departments, and institutions?as applicable for the project proposed, reviewers will evaluate the following additional items while determining scientific and technical merit, and in providing an overall impact score, but will not give separate scores for these items.protections for human subjectsfor research that involves human subjects but does not involve one of the categories of research that are exempt under 45 cfr part 46, the committee will evaluate the justification for involvement of human subjects and the proposed protections from research risk relating to their participation according to the following five review criteria: 1) risk to subjects, 2) adequacy of protection against risks, 3) potential benefits to the subjects and others, 4) importance of the knowledge to be gained, and 5) data and safety monitoring for clinical trials.for research that involves human subjects and meets the criteria for one or more of the categories of research that are exempt under 45 cfr part 46, the committee will evaluate: 1) the justification for the exemption, 2) human subjects involvement and characteristics, and 3) sources of materials. for additional information on review of the human subjects section, please refer to the guidelines for the review of human subjects.inclusion of women, minorities, and individuals across the lifespanwhen the proposed project involves human subjects and/or nih-defined clinical research, the committee will evaluate the proposed plans for the inclusion (or exclusion) of individuals on the basis of sex/gender, race, and ethnicity, as well as the inclusion (or exclusion) of individuals of all ages (including children and older adults) to determine if it is justified in terms of the scientific goals and research strategy proposed. for additional information on review of the inclusion section, please refer to the guidelines for the review of inclusion in clinical research.vertebrate animalsthe committee will evaluate the involvement of live vertebrate animals as part of the scientific assessment according to the following criteria: (1) description of proposed procedures involving animals, including species, strains, ages, sex, and total number to be used; (2) justifications for the use of animals versus alternative models and for the appropriateness of the species proposed; (3) interventions to minimize discomfort, distress, pain and injury; and (4) justification for euthanasia method if not consistent with the avma guidelines for the euthanasia of animals. reviewers will assess the use of chimpanzees as they would any other application proposing the use of vertebrate animals. for additional information on review of the vertebrate animals section, please refer to the worksheet for review of the vertebrate animal section.biohazardsreviewers will assess whether materials or procedures proposed are potentially hazardous to research personnel and/or the environment, and if needed, determine whether adequate protection is proposed.resubmissionsfor resubmissions, the committee will evaluate the application as now presented, taking into consideration the responses to comments from the previous scientific review group and changes made to the project.revisionsnot applicablerenewalsfor renewals, the committee will consider the progress made in the last funding period., .as applicable for the project proposed, reviewers will consider each of the following items, but will not give scores for these items, and should not consider them in providing an overall impact score.recruitment plan to enhance diversitythe applicant must provide a recruitment plan to enhance diversity. include outreach strategies and activities designed to recruit prospective participants from underrepresented groups. describe the specific efforts to be undertaken by the program and how the proposed plan reflects past experiences in recruiting individuals from underrepresented groups.renewal applications must include a detailed account of experiences in recruiting individuals from underrepresented groups during the previous funding period, including successful and unsuccessful recruitment strategies.applications lacking a recruitment plan to enhance diversity will not be reviewed.training in the responsible conduct of researchtaking into account the specific characteristics of the proposed research education program, the level of participant experience, the reviewers will evaluate the adequacy of the proposed rcr training in relation to the following five required components: 1) format - the required format of instruction, i.e., face-to-face lectures, coursework, and/or real-time discussion groups (a plan with only on-line instruction is not acceptable); 2) subject matter - the breadth of subject matter, e.g., conflict of interest, authorship, data management, human subjects and animal use, laboratory safety, research misconduct, research ethics; 3) faculty participation - the role of the program faculty in the instruction; 4) duration of instruction - the number of contact hours of instruction, taking into consideration the duration of the program; and 5) frequency of instruction –instruction must occur during each career stage and at least once every four years. see also: not-od-10-019 and not-od-22-055. the review panel’s evaluation will be included in the summary statement. plans will be rated as acceptable or unacceptable, and the summary statement will provide the consensus of the review committee.applications from foreign organizationsnot applicableselect agent researchgenerally not applicable. reviewers should bring any concerns to the attention of the scientific review officer.resource sharing plansnote: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023, the data sharing plan and genomic data sharing plan (gds) will not be evaluated at time of review.reviewers will comment on whether the resource sharing plan(s) (i.e., sharing model organisms) or the rationale for not sharing the resources, is reasonable.budget and period of supportreviewers will consider whether the budget and the requested period of support are fully justified and reasonable in relation to the proposed research.2. review and selection processapplications will be evaluated for scientific and technical merit by (an) appropriate scientific review group(s),convened by the center for scientific review, in accordance with nih peer review policy and procedures, using the stated review criteria. assignment to a scientific review group will be shown in the era commons.as part of the scientific peer review, all applications will receive a written critique.applications may undergo a selection process in which only those applications deemed to have the highest scientific and technical merit (generally the top half of applications under review) will be discussed and assigned an overall impact score.appeals of initial peer review will not be accepted for applications submitted in response to this foa.3. anticipated announcement and award datesafter the peer review of the application is completed, the pd/pi will be able to access his or her summary statement (written critique) via the era commons. refer to part 1 for dates for peer review, advisory council review, and earliest start date.information regarding the disposition of applications is available in the nih grants policy statement.1. award noticesif the application is under consideration for funding, nih will request "just-in-time" information from the applicant as described in the nih grants policy statement.a formal notification in the form of a notice of award (noa) will be provided to the applicant organization for successful applications. the noa signed by the grants management officer is the authorizing document and will be sent via email to the recipient’s business official.recipients must comply with any funding restrictions described in section iv.6. funding restrictions. selection of an application for award is not an authorization to begin performance. any costs incurred before receipt of the noa are at the recipient's risk. these costs may be reimbursed only to the extent considered allowable pre-award costs.any application awarded in response to this foa will be subject to terms and conditions found on the award conditions and information for nih grants website. this includes any recent legislation and policy applicable to awards that is highlighted on this website.institutional review board or independent ethics committee approval: recipient institutions must ensure that protocols are reviewed by their irb or iec. to help ensure the safety of participants enrolled in nih-funded studies, the recipient must provide nih copies of documents related to all major changes in the status of ongoing protocols.2. administrative and national policy requirementsall nih grant and cooperative agreement awards include the nih grants policy statement as part of the noa. for these terms of award, see the nih grants policy statement part ii: terms and conditions of nih grant awards, subpart a: general and part ii: terms and conditions of nih grant awards, subpart b: terms and conditions for specific types of grants, recipients, and activities, including of note, but not limited to:if a recipient is successful and receives a notice of award, in accepting the award, the recipient agrees that any activities under the award are subject to all provisions currently in effect or implemented during the period of the award, other department regulations and policies in effect at the time of the award, and applicable statutory provisions.should the applicant organization successfully compete for an award, recipients of federal financial assistance (ffa) from hhs must administer their programs in compliance with federal civil rights laws that prohibit discrimination on the basis of race, color, national origin, disability, age and, in some circumstances, religion, conscience, and sex (including gender identity, sexual orientation, and pregnancy). this includes ensuring programs are accessible to persons with limited english proficiency and persons with disabilities. the hhs office for civil rights provides guidance on complying with civil rights laws enforced by hhs. please see https://www.hhs.gov/civil-rights/for-providers/provider-obligations/index.html and https://www.hhs.gov/civil-rights/for-individuals/nondiscrimination/index.html.hhs recognizes that research projects are often limited in scope for many reasons that are nondiscriminatory, such as the principal investigator’s scientific interest, funding limitations, recruitment requirements, and other considerations. thus, criteria in research protocols that target or exclude certain populations are warranted where nondiscriminatory justifications establish that such criteria are appropriate with respect to the health or safety of the subjects, the scientific study design, or the purpose of the research. for additional guidance regarding how the provisions apply to nih grant programs, please contact the scientific/research contact that is identified in section vii under agency contacts of this foa.please contact the hhs office for civil rights for more information about obligations and prohibitions under federal civil rights laws at https://www.hhs.gov/ocr/about-us/contact-us/index.html or call 1-800-368-1019 or tdd 1-800-537-7697.in accordance with the statutory provisions contained in section 872 of the duncan hunter national defense authorization act of fiscal year 2009 (public law 110-417), nih awards will be subject to the federal awardee performance and integrity information system (fapiis) requirements. fapiis requires federal award making officials to review and consider information about an applicant in the designated integrity and performance system (currently fapiis) prior to making an award. an applicant, at its option, may review information in the designated integrity and performance systems accessible through fapiis and comment on any information about itself that a federal agency previously entered and is currently in fapiis. the federal awarding agency will consider any comments by the applicant, in addition to other information in fapiis, in making a judgement about the applicant’s integrity, business ethics, and record of performance under federal awards when completing the review of risk posed by applicants as described in 45 cfr part 75.205 and 2 cfr part 200.206 “federal awarding agency review of risk posed by applicants.” this provision will apply to all nih grants and cooperative agreements except fellowships.3. data management and sharingnote: the nih policy for data management and sharing is effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023.consistent with the nih policy for data management and sharing, when data management and sharing is applicable to the award, recipients will be required to adhere to the data management and sharing requirements as outlined in the nih grants policy statement. upon the approval of a data management and sharing plan, it is required for recipients to implement the plan as described.4. reportingwhen multiple years are involved, recipients will be required to submit the research performance progress report (rppr) annually. continuation support will not be provided until the required forms are submitted and accepted.programs that involve participants should report on education in the responsible conduct of research and complete a trainee diversity report, in accordance with the rppr instruction guide.nih foas outline intended research goalsand objectives. post award, nih will review and measure performance based on the details and outcomes that are shared within the rppr, as described at 45 cfr part 75.301 and 2 cfr 200.301.the federal funding accountability and transparency act of 2006 (transparency act), includes a requirement for awardees of federal grants to report information about first-tier subawards and executive compensation under federal assistance awards issued in fy2011 or later. all recipients of applicable nih grants and cooperative agreements are required to report to the federal subaward reporting system (fsrs) available at www.fsrs.gov on all subawards over the threshold. see the nih grants policy statement for additional information on this reporting requirement.failure by the recipient institution to submit required forms in a timely, complete, and accurate manner may result in an expenditure disallowance or a delay in any continuation funding for the award.in accordance with the regulatory requirements 45 cfr part 75 and 2 cfr part 200 and appendix xii to 45 cfr part 75.113 and 2 cfr part 200.113, recipients that have currently active federal grants, cooperative agreements, and procurement contracts from all federal awarding agencies with a cumulative total value greater than $10,000,000 for any period of time during the period of performance of a federal award, must report and maintain the currency of information reported in the system for award management (sam) about civil, criminal, and administrative proceedings in connection with the award or performance of a federal award that reached final disposition within the most recent five-year period. the recipient must also make semiannual disclosures regarding such proceedings. proceedings information will be made publicly available in the designated integrity and performance system (currently fapiis). this is a statutory requirement under section 872 of public law 110-417, as amended (41 u.s.c. 2313). as required by section 3010 of public law 111-212, all information posted in the designated integrity and performance system on or after april 15, 2011, except past performance reviews required for federal procurement contracts, will be publicly available. full reporting requirements and procedures are found in appendix xii to 45 cfr part 75 and 2 cfr part 200 – award term and condition for recipient integrity and performance matters.other reporting requirementsa final rppr and the expenditure data portion of the federal financial report are required for closeout of an award as described in the nih grants policy statement.5. evaluationin carrying out its stewardship of human resource-related programs, the nih or its institutes and centers will periodically evaluate their r25 research education programs, employing the measures identified below. in assessing the effectiveness of its research education investments, nih may request information from databases, pd/pis, and from participants themselves. where necessary, pd/pis and participants may be contacted after the completion of a research education experience for periodic updates on participants’ subsequent educational or employment history and professional activities.upon the completion of a program evaluation, nih and its ics will determine whether to (a) continue a program as currently configured, (b) continue a program with modifications, or (c) discontinue a program.in evaluating this research education program obssr expects to use the following evaluation measures:for courses for skills development:we encourage inquiries concerning this funding opportunity and welcome the opportunity to answer questions from potential applicants.era service desk (questions regarding assist, era commons, application errors and warnings, documenting system problems that threaten submission by the due date, and post-submission issues)finding help online: https://www.era.nih.gov/need-help (preferred method of contact) telephone: 301-402-7469 or 866-504-9552 (toll free)general grants information (questions regarding application instructions, application processes, and nih grant resources) email: grantsinfo@nih.gov (preferred method of contact) telephone: 301-637-3015grants.gov customer support (questions regarding grants.gov registration and workspace) contact center telephone: 800-518-4726 email: support@grants.govsba company registry (questions regarding required registration at the sba company registry and for technical questions or issues) website to email: http://sbir.gov/feedback?type=regerica l. spotts, ph.doffice of behavioral and social sciences research (obssr) telephone: 301-594-2105 email: spottse@od.nih.govregina bures, phd eunice kennedy shriver national institute of child health and human development (nichd) telephone: 301-496-9485 email: regina.bures@nih.govjames churchill, ph.d. national institute of mental health (nimh) telephone: 301-443-3621 email: james.churchill@nih.govsatoko janet kuramotocrawford national institute on drug abuse (nida) phone: 3014438856 e-mail: janet.kuramoto-crawford@nih.govlanay m. mudd, ph.d., facsm national center for complementary and integrative health (nccih) phone: 301-594-9346 email: lanay.mudd@nih.govstephanie m george, phd national institute of arthritis and musculoskeletal and skin diseases (niams) e-mail: stephanie.george@nih.govmelissa c. green parker, ph.d. office of disease prevention (odp) phone: 301-480-1161 e-mail: melissa.greenparker@nih.govsergey radaev, ph.d. national cancer institute (nci) telephone: 240-276-5630 email: sradaev@mail.nih.govjames gao national eye institute (nei) phone: 301.594.6074 e-mail: james.gao@nih.govmaureen monaghan center, ph.d. national institute of diabetes and digestive and kidney diseases (niddk) phone: none e-mail: maureen.center@nih.govcenter for scientific review (csr) email: foareviewcontact@csr.nih.govmargaret young eunice kennedy shriver national institute of child health and human development (nichd) telephone: 301-642-4552 email: margaret.young@nih.govterri jarosik national institute of mental health (nimh) telephone: 301-443-3858 email: tjarosik@mail.nih.govpamela g fleming national institute on drug abuse (nida) phone: 301-480-1159 e-mail: pfleming@mail.nih.govdebbie chen national center for complementary and integrative health (nccih) phone: 301-594-3788 email: debbie.chen@nih.govsahar rais-danai national institute of arthritis and musculoskeletal and skin diseases (niams) phone: 301-594-5032 e-mail: sahar.rais-danai@nih.govcrystal wolfrey national cancer institute (nci) telephone: 240-276-6277 email: wolfreyc@mail.nih.govkaren robinsonsmith national eye institute (nei) phone: (301) 451-2020 e-mail: kyr@nei.nih.govchristina coriz national institute of diabetes and digestive and kidney diseases (niddk) phone: 301-594-8848 e-mail: corizc@mail.nih.govrecently issued trans-nih policy notices may affect your application submission. a full list of policy notices published by nih is provided in the nih guide for grants and contracts. all awards are subject to the terms and conditions, cost principles, and other considerations described in the nih grants policy statement.awards are made under the authorization of sections 301 and 405 of the public health service act as amended (42 usc 241 and 284) and under federal regulations 42 cfr part 52 and 45 cfr part 75 and 2 cfr part 200.weekly toc for this announcement nih funding opportunities and noticesnote: for help accessing pdf, rtf, ms word, excel, powerpoint, audio or video files, see help downloading files.