Human Islet Research Network (HIRN) Pancreas Knowledgebase Program (PanKbase) (U24 - Clinical Trial Not Allowed)
https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/rfa-files/RFA-DK-22-018.html
national institutes of health (nih)national institute of diabetes and digestive and kidney diseases (niddk)u24 resource-related research projects – cooperative agreementssee section iii. 3. additional information on eligibility.this funding opportunity announcement (foa) invites applications to develop a centralized resource of the human pancreas for diabetes research that will provide access to deeply curated high-quality datasets, knowledge in computable forms, and advanced data science tools and workflows; and enable open and reproducible multidisciplinary collaboration toward accelerating biomarker and therapeutic target development. the program will become a component of the human islet research network or hirn (https://hirnetwork.org/).february 28, 2023all applications are due by 5:00 pm local time of applicant organization.applicants are encouraged to apply early to allow adequate time to make any corrections to errors found in the application during the submission process by the due date.not applicableit is critical that applicants follow the instructions in the research (r) instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, except where instructed to do otherwise (in this foa or in a notice from nih guide for grants and contracts).conformance to all requirements (both in the application guide and the foa) is required and strictly enforced. applicants must read and follow all application instructions in the application guide as well as any program-specific instructions noted in section iv. when the program-specific instructions deviate from those in the application guide, follow the program-specific instructions.applications that do not comply with these instructions may be delayed or not accepted for review.there are several options available to submit your application through grants.gov to nih and department of health and human services partners. you must use one of these submission options to access the application forms for this opportunity.backgroundknowledgebases that maintain deeply curated datasets, and allow users to access, reuse and integrate such resources, have become critical enablers for biomedical research. in addition, because of the complexity of biological systems, the research community is increasingly dependent on knowledge stored in computable forms, as exemplified by knowledgebases of ontology, pathways, interactomes, and other domain-specific ---processed information. furthermore, modern knowledgebases employ advanced data science technologies such as semantic technology, natural language processing (nlp), and artificial intelligence and machine learning (ai/ml). these advances have increased knowledgebase efficiency, scalability and interoperability, and make them essential resources for the research community at large.in the past decade the research community has generated a growing collection of high-quality heterogenous data types describing human pancreata collected from both normal healthy donors and donors living with diabetes. contributors to this acceleration in data collection include consortia belonging to the human islet research network (hirn) and its human pancreas analysis program (hpap), and several other niddk-supported programs including the integrated islet distribution program (iidp). relevant data are also being generated by programs supported by other agencies, such as the network for pancreatic organ donors with diabetes (npod) that is supported by the juvenile diabetes research foundation (jdrf) and the helmsley charitable trust; as well as from individual investigators. these complex datasets are a rich source of (largely hidden) high resolution, high depth information about the molecular and cellular composition of the pancreatic islet cellular environment, the way cell types and subtypes interact in this environment, and the events regulating basic pancreatic function and dysfunction. although data repositories already exist (such as the pancdb, pancreatlas), much of the data remains extremely under-interrogated.in addition to the datasets, the diabetes research community has also accumulated extensive, though often fragmented, processed information about the pancreatic islet niche in healthy and diabetic individuals. this includes knowledge about cell types and molecules, signaling pathways and regulatory programs, as well as the molecular interaction networks and tissue cross talk that are involved in disease pathogenesis. while such knowledge remains largely scattered in the literature, it is possible that once retrieved, compiled, and curated into machine-readable and actionable forms, they may be integrated to formulate novel hypotheses and theories, and incorporated to guide new approaches to data analysis and modeling.to facilitate utilization and integration of important data and knowledge, and foster innovations within the diabetes research community, a centralized resource focused on the human pancreas that will provide openly accessible, high-quality deeply-curated data, computable knowledge, and advanced analytical tools is needed. such a resource will enable bench molecular biologists to analyze, visualize and interpret their research results; data scientists and bioinformaticians to develop novel approaches for data mining and knowledge discovery; and systems biologists to build predictive mechanistic models of normal and disease pathways for biomarker and drug target discovery.scope and objectivesthis initiative will support the creation of a human pancreas knowledgebase (pankbase) program. the overarching goals of the program will include: meeting community needs for accessing essential data, knowledge and tools; fostering cross-disciplinary collaborations; promoting rigor and reproducibility (r&r) in research; and driving innovation, discovery and paradigm shifts toward biomarker and therapeutic target development. the program will play a key role in organizing, representing, standardizing and disseminating data and resources focused on the human pancreas. pankbase will become a new component of the human islet research network or hirn (https://hirnetwork.org/).the program will be led by a multi-pd/pi team that seeks to cross boundaries of interdisciplinary collaboration by bridging fields and linking theory and data analysis to domain knowledge and experimental designs. the leadership will include at least one computational biologist and one islet biologist with extensive experience of human type 1 diabetes (t1d) pathogenesis. the team should have a demonstrated track record of developing community resources such as biomedical data repositories and knowledge portals, expertise in modern data science technologies and platforms; deep appreciation of the important research questions in diabetes especially in t1d; and experience in outreach to research communities by effectively communicating and engaging with scientists from diverse backgrounds.more specifically, the program will be responsible for developing and maintaining a centralized, openly accessible, comprehensive resource of the human pancreas for the diabetes research community, with the following major components.databasethis component will assemble and maintain a core set of deeply curated and annotated high-quality data and meta data of the human pancreas, from both normal donors and donors with diabetes at various stages of the disease, with a primary focus on type 1 diabetes (t1d). anticipated data types will include multi-omics data, spatial omics and single cell data, deep phenotyping, imaging, physiological and functional measurements, and clinical information about tissue donors.it will define and maintain cellular atlases and molecular signatures of major cell types found in the human pancreas at different stages of t1d, from normal to stage 3. these will include cell types from all relevant tissue compartments (including endocrine, exocrine, ductal, immune, vascular and neuronal). efforts to define the human pancreas- and diabetes-specific atlases and signatures will maximally leverage other, more broadly-focused, efforts, including the nih common fund programs such as the human biomolecular atlas program (hubmap), the cellular senescence network (sennet) program, international community efforts such as the human cell atlas program, and the benchmarks that they have developed such as the tabula sapiens, to help define normal references.this component will assemble and maintain a collection of domain knowledge in computable forms, such as curated pancreas cell-specific and t1d-specific gene and protein networks, protein complexes, pathways and interactomes; as well as other knowledge of human pancreas structure, function and physiology. it will maximally leverage existing general-purposed knowledgebases of pathways and interactomes (such the kegg pathway database, the gene ontology, and the reactome). these programs typically focus on molecular relationships shared across most human tissues, under a range of different physiological and pathological conditions, which can serve as normal references.this component will also include an internal reference database that consolidates information from external data repositories where relevant exiting datasets are housed. it will maintain data types harmonized, interoperable, and ready for ai/ml applications.a library of analyticsanalytical tools that are relevant to the utilization, integration and interrogation of the core pankbase datasets and computable knowledge, will be collected and hosted. these can include (but are not limited to) tools for knowledge extraction from data, deep curation and annotation of data, integrated analysis of complex and heterogeneous data sets, representations of scientific concepts, and creative tools for visualization and reporting. the library will maintain dynamic links to software tools repositories such as github and bioconductor, and will maximally leverage and reuse existing tools.the library will also develop, host, and share advanced data modeling workflows for predictive and mechanistic modeling of novel biological insights and new testable hypotheses using pankbase datasets. initially it will focus on use case workflows that are designed to answer research questions regarding t1d initiation. examples include but are not limited to: the triggering events of ß-cell destruction in t1d; the perpetuating nature of disease initiation and progression; the interactions and cross talks between cells in the islet tissue niche, including endocrine, immune, and other cell types; the interplay between pro-inflammatory and immune regulatory pathways; and the immune checkpoints. answers to these questions are important for developing next-generation biomarkers, including composite biomarkers, that catch the initiation and early progression of disease, and for developing effective prevention and early therapeutic interventions.an open science platformthe platform will allow users to query, annotate, aggregate, visualize, and integrate data and knowledge from pankbase’s database and library, through a user-friendly web interface. it will allow investigators to select and combine datasets of interest, assemble data analysis workflows using embed tools from its library, customize the tools and the workflows if needed, run analysis, and save and share their analysis instances. the pankbase will maintain an inventory of analysis results of its datasets. others can potentially rerun the same exact analysis of the same dataset, and reproduce the findings; or adopt/modify the workflow for new analysis.pankbase will take advantage of modern data science technologies to enhance performance and improve efficiency; to provide the knowledgebase content in novel ways that are informative, efficient, and intuitive to users; and to ensure that the platform will scale efficiently and sustainably with both the growing data volume and complexity. such technologies can include but are not limited to, natural language processing (nlp), semantic technology, artificial intelligence and machine learning (ai/ml), and deep learning (dl).the platform will be in cloud and friendly for ai/ml applications. the knowledgebase will use community standards and ontologies for data, metadata and tools, and include a scheme to assign persistent unique identifiers to track all resources, and to promote sharing, fair practice, and r&r.community & stakeholder outreach and engagementthe diabetes research community and stakeholders will be engaged to contribute domain knowledge, data, and analytical tools and workflows, and to participate in curation and annotation. additionally, the community will be recruited to assist in deciding the scope, functional features, standards and performance metrics of pankbase. a niddk research community-based scientific advisory board will be formed, to ensure knowledgebase performance in meeting defined needs. while plans to invite and support sub-awards that may augment program outreach or collaborative functions, including the recruitment of community contribution, are not requested in this funding opportunity announcement, additional funds may be made available at a later time to support and expand these types of collaborative activities.partnerships with other niddk funded programs.pankbase will work closely with the other programs and the research consortia of the hirn, most importantly, the research enhancement center (hirec), and the human pancreas analysis program (hpap). these partnerships will be important for data compilation, curation and annotation, and meta data development; for collecting and curating domain knowledge; and for testing and validating novel predictions coming out of collaborations and data analyses enabled by pankbase. pankbase will collaborate with other niddk programs that may host data types of, or related to, normal and disease human pancreas, such as the iidp, the environmental determinants of diabetes in the young (teddy) and the accelerating medicines partnership-common metabolic diseases (amp-cmd) knowledge portal. other programs to collaborate with may also include the niddk information network (dknet). pankbase may work with dknet on tracking and sharing data and resources, development of persistent unique identifiers for digital objects, community outreach and engagement, workforce development, and fair and r&r.see section viii. other information for award authorities and regulations.cooperative agreement: a support mechanism used when there will be substantial federal scientific or programmatic involvement. substantial involvement means that, after award, nih scientific or program staff will assist, guide, coordinate, or participate in project activities. see section vi.2 for additional information about the substantial involvement for this foa.the oer glossary and the sf424 (r&r) application guide provide details on these application types. only those application types listed here are allowed for this foa.not allowed: only accepting applications that do not propose clinical trials.need help determining whether you are doing a clinical trial?niddk intends to commit $3 million in fy 2023 to fund 1 award.the maximum project period is 5 years.nih grants policies as described in the nih grants policy statement will apply to the applications submitted and awards made from this foa.1. eligible applicantshigher education institutionsthe following types of higher education institutions are always encouraged to apply for nih support as public or private institutions of higher education:nonprofits other than institutions of higher educationfor-profit organizationslocal governmentsfederal governmentsothernon-domestic (non-u.s.) entities (foreign institutions) are not eligible to apply.non-domestic (non-u.s.) components of u.s. organizations are not eligible to apply.foreign components, as defined in the nih grants policy statement, are allowed.applicant organizationsapplicant organizations must complete and maintain the following registrations as described in the sf 424 (r&r) application guide to be eligible to apply for or receive an award. all registrations must be completed prior to the application being submitted. registration can take 6 weeks or more, so applicants should begin the registration process as soon as possible. the nih policy on late submission of grant applications states that failure to complete registrations in advance of a due date is not a valid reason for a late submission.program directors/principal investigators (pd(s)/pi(s))all pd(s)/pi(s) must have an era commons account. pd(s)/pi(s) should work with their organizational officials to either create a new account or to affiliate their existing account with the applicant organization in era commons. if the pd/pi is also the organizational signing official, they must have two distinct era commons accounts, one for each role. obtaining an era commons account can take up to 2 weeks.any individual(s) with the skills, knowledge, and resources necessary to carry out the proposed research as the program director(s)/principal investigator(s) (pd(s)/pi(s)) is invited to work with his/her organization to develop an application for support. individuals from diverse backgrounds, including underrepresented racial and ethnic groups, individuals with disabilities, and women are always encouraged to apply for nih support.for institutions/organizations proposing multiple pds/pis, visit the multiple program director/principal investigator policy and submission details in the senior/key person profile (expanded) component of the sf424 (r&r) application guide.the application is required to be submitted as a multiple pd/pi application with a minimum of 2 pds/pis, all of whom must have an appointment at a domestic institution. the contact pi should be a computational biologist, and the research team should include one islet biologist with extensive experience in human type 1 diabetes pathogenesis as a mpi. scientists employed solely by foreign institutions may not serve as one of the pd(s)/pis of the multiple pd/pi team, although they may be included in the application as collaborators/co-investigators, consultants or other significant contributors. visit the multiple pd/pi policy and submission details in the senior/key person profile (expanded) component of the sf424 (r&r) application guide, and the grant policy statement on multiple principal investigators. minimum allowed efforts by the pds/pis are described in the r&r budget instructions in part 2. section iv.2.2. cost sharingthis foa does not require cost sharing as defined in the nih grants policy statement.3. additional information on eligibilitynumber of applicationsapplicant organizations may submit more than one application, provided that each application is scientifically distinct.the nih will not accept duplicate or highly overlapping applications under review at the same time, per 2.3.7.4 submission of resubmission application. this means that the nih will not accept:1. requesting an application packagethe application forms package specific to this opportunity must be accessed through assist, grants.gov workspace or an institutional system-to-system solution. links to apply using assist or grants.gov workspace are available in part 1 of this foa. see your administrative office for instructions if you plan to use an institutional system-to-system solution.2. content and form of application submissionit is critical that applicants follow the instructions in the research (r) instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide except where instructed in this funding opportunity announcement to do otherwise. conformance to the requirements in the application guide is required and strictly enforced. applications that are out of compliance with these instructions may be delayed or not accepted for review.letter of intentalthough a letter of intent is not required, is not binding, and does not enter into the review of a subsequent application, the information that it contains allows ic staff to estimate the potential review workload and plan the review.by the date listed in part 1. overview information, prospective applicants are asked to submit a letter of intent that includes the following information:the letter of intent should be sent to:john f. connaughton, ph.d.chief, scientific review branchnational institute of diabetes and digestive and kidney diseases telephone: 301-594-7797 email: niddkletterofintent@mail.nih.govpage limitationsall page limitations described in the sf424 application guide and the table of page limits must be followed.instructions for application submissionnote: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023, the data management and sharing (dms) plan will be attached in the other plan(s) attachment in forms-h and subsequent application forms packages. for due dates on or before january 24, 2023, the data sharing plan and genomic data sharing plan gds) will continue to be attached in the resource sharing plan attachment in forms-g application forms packages.the following section supplements the instructions found in the sf424 (r&r) application guide and should be used for preparing an application to this foa.sf424(r&r) project/performance site locationsall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.sf424(r&r) coverall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.sf424(r&r) other project informationall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.sf424(r&r) senior/key person profileall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.r&r budgetall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.r&r subaward budgetall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.phs 398 cover page supplementall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.phs 398 research planother plan(s):note: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023, the data management and sharing plan will be attached in the other plan(s) attachment in forms-h and subsequent application forms packages. for due dates on or before january 24, 2023, the data sharing plan and genomic data sharing plan gds) will continue to be attached in the resource sharing plan attachment in forms-g application forms packages.all applicants planning research (funded or conducted in whole or in part by nih) that results in the generation of scientific data are required to comply with the instructions for the data management and sharing plan. all applications, regardless of the amount of direct costs requested for any one year, must address a data management and sharing plan.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed, with the following additional instructions:research strategy: applications should clearly describe:resource sharing plan: individuals are required to comply with the instructions for the resource sharing plans as provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.the following modifications also apply:appendix:only limited appendix materials are allowed. follow all instructions for the appendix as described in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.phs human subjects and clinical trials informationwhen involving human subjects research, clinical research, and/or nih-defined clinical trials (and when applicable, clinical trials research experience) follow all instructions for the phs human subjects and clinical trials information form in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, with the following additional instructions:if you answered “yes” to the question “are human subjects involved?” on the r&r other project information form, you must include at least one human subjects study record using the study record: phs human subjects and clinical trials information form or delayed onset study record.study record: phs human subjects and clinical trials informationall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.delayed onset studynote: delayed onset does not apply to a study that can be described but will not start immediately (i.e., delayed start).all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.phs assignment request formall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.3. unique entity identifier and system for award management (sam)see part 1. section iii.1 for information regarding the requirement for obtaining a unique entity identifier and for completing and maintaining active registrations in system for award management (sam), nato commercial and government entity (ncage) code (if applicable), era commons, and grants.gov4. submission dates and timespart i. overview information contains information about key dates and times. applicants are encouraged to submit applications before the due date to ensure they have time to make any application corrections that might be necessary for successful submission. when a submission date falls on a weekend or federal holiday, the application deadline is automatically extended to the next business day.organizations must submit applications to grants.gov (the online portal to find and apply for grants across all federal agencies). applicants must then complete the submission process by tracking the status of the application in the era commons, nih’s electronic system for grants administration. nih and grants.gov systems check the application against many of the application instructions upon submission. errors must be corrected and a changed/corrected application must be submitted to grants.gov on or before the application due date and time. if a changed/corrected application is submitted after the deadline, the application will be considered late. applications that miss the due date and time are subjected to the nih policy on late application submission.applicants are responsible for viewing their application before the due date in the era commons to ensure accurate and successful submission.information on the submission process and a definition of on-time submission are provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.5. intergovernmental review (e.o. 12372)this initiative is not subject to intergovernmental review.use of common data elements in nih-funded researchmany nih ics encourage the use of common data elements (cdes) in basic, clinical, and applied research, patient registries, and other human subject research to facilitate broader and more effective use of data and advance research across studies. cdes are data elements that have been identified and defined for use in multiple data sets across different studies. use of cdes can facilitate data sharing and standardization to improve data quality and enable data integration from multiple studies and sources, including electronic health records. nih ics have identified cdes for many clinical domains (e.g., neurological disease), types of studies (e.g. genome-wide association studies (gwas)), types of outcomes (e.g., patient-reported outcomes), and patient registries (e.g., the global rare diseases patient registry and data repository). nih has established a “common data element (cde) resource portal" (https://cde.nlm.nih.gov/home)to assist investigators in identifying nih-supported cdes when developing protocols, case report forms, and other instruments for data collection. the portal provides guidance about and access to nih-supported cde initiatives and other tools and resources for the appropriate use of cdes and data standards in nih-funded research. investigators are encouraged to consult the portal and describe in their applications any use they will make of nih-supported cdes in their projects.6. funding restrictionsall nih awards are subject to the terms and conditions, cost principles, and other considerations described in the nih grants policy statement.pre-award costs are allowable only as described in the nih grants policy statement.7. other submission requirements and informationapplications must be submitted electronically following the instructions described in the sf424 (r&r) application guide. paper applications will not be accepted.applicants must complete all required registrations before the application due date. section iii. eligibility information contains information about registration.for assistance with your electronic application or for more information on the electronic submission process, visit how to apply – application guide. if you encounter a system issue beyond your control that threatens your ability to complete the submission process on-time, you must follow the dealing with system issues guidance. for assistance with application submission, contact the application submission contacts in section vii.important reminders:all pd(s)/pi(s) must include their era commons id in the credential field of the senior/key person profile form. failure to register in the commons and to include a valid pd/pi commons id in the credential field will prevent the successful submission of an electronic application to nih. see section iii of this foa for information on registration requirements.the applicant organization must ensure that the unique entity identifier provided on the application is the same identifier used in the organization’s profile in the era commons and for the system for award management. additional information may be found in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.see more tips for avoiding common errors.upon receipt, applications will be evaluated for completeness and compliance with application instructions by the center for scientific review and responsiveness by niddk, nih. applications that are incomplete, non-compliant and/or nonresponsive will not be reviewed.post submission materialsapplicants are required to follow the instructions for post-submission materials, as described in the policy. any instructions provided here are in addition to the instructions in the policy.1. criterianote: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023, the data sharing plan and genomic data sharing plan (gds) as part of the resource sharing plan will not be evaluated at time of review.only the review criteria described below will be considered in the review process. applications submitted to the nih in support of the nih mission are evaluated for scientific and technical merit through the nih peer review system.reviewers will provide an overall impact score to reflect their assessment of the likelihood for the project to exert a sustained, powerful influence on the research field(s) involved, in consideration of the following review criteria and additional review criteria (as applicable for the project proposed).reviewers will consider each of the review criteria below in the determination of scientific merit and give a separate score for each. an application does not need to be strong in all categories to be judged likely to have major scientific impact. for example, a project that by its nature is not innovative may be essential to advance a field.does the proposed resources address the needs of the research community that it will serve? is the scope of activities proposed for the resources appropriate to meet those needs? will successful completion of the aims bring unique advantages or capabilities to the research community?are the pd(s)/pi(s) and other personnel well suited to their roles in the resources? do they have appropriate experience and training, and have they demonstrated experience and an ongoing record of accomplishments in managing complex research? do the investigators demonstrate significant experience with coordinating collaborative [basic or clinical] research? if the center is multi-pd/pi, do the investigators have complementary and integrated expertise and skills; are their [leadership approach, governance, plans for conflict resolution, and organizational structure] appropriate for the resources? does the applicant have experience overseeing selection and management of subawards, if needed?specific to this foahow strong are the team's expertise and track record in the following: diabetes research and human pancreas biology; developing and/or adopting advanced data science technologies; developing community resources such as knowledgebases; and community outreach and engagement?does the application propose novel [organizational concepts, management strategies, or instrumentation] in coordinating the research community the resources will serve? are the concepts, strategies, or instrumentation novel to one type of research program or applicable in a broad sense? is a refinement, improvement, or new application of [organizational concepts, management strategies or instrumentation] proposed?specific to this foawhat is the level of innovation in the proposed strategies to integrate advanced data science technologies to pankbase? what is the level of innovation in approaches to community outreach and engagement?are the overall strategy, operational plan, and organizational structure well-reasoned and appropriate to accomplish the goals of the research community the resources will serve? will the investigators promote strategies to ensure a robust and unbiased scientific approach across the community, as appropriate for the work proposed? are potential problems, alternative strategies, and benchmarks for success presented? if the community is in the early stages of operation, does the proposed strategy adequately establish feasibility and manage the risks associated with the activities of the community? are an appropriate plan for work-flow and a well-established timeline proposed? have the investigators presented adequate plans to ensure consideration of relevant biological variables, such as sex, for studies of vertebrate animals or human subjects?specific to this foahow appropriate and feasible are the team’s vision of the program and designing principles of the knowledgebase? how appropriate and feasible are the strategies to develop each required component of the pankbase program? how efficient and feasible are plans for engaging the diabetes research community, and partner with other hirn programs and research consortia? how appropriate and feasible are the timeline and the set of yearly milestones given the scientific scope, budget and length of award?will the institutional environment in which the resources will operate contribute to the probability of success in facilitating the research community it serves? are the institutional support, equipment and other physical resources available to the investigators adequate for the resources proposed? will the resources benefit from unique features of the institutional environment, infrastructure, or personnel? are resources available within the scientific environment to support electronic information handling?as applicable for the project proposed, reviewers will evaluate the following additional items while determining scientific and technical merit, and in providing an overall impact score, but will not give separate scores for these items.for research that involves human subjects but does not involve one of the categories of research that are exempt under 45 cfr part 46, the committee will evaluate the justification for involvement of human subjects and the proposed protections from research risk relating to their participation according to the following five review criteria: 1) risk to subjects, 2) adequacy of protection against risks, 3) potential benefits to the subjects and others, 4) importance of the knowledge to be gained, and 5) data and safety monitoring for clinical trials.for research that involves human subjects and meets the criteria for one or more of the categories of research that are exempt under 45 cfr part 46, the committee will evaluate: 1) the justification for the exemption, 2) human subjects involvement and characteristics, and 3) sources of materials. for additional information on review of the human subjects section, please refer to the guidelines for the review of human subjects.when the proposed project involves human subjects and/or nih-defined clinical research, the committee will evaluate the proposed plans for the inclusion (or exclusion) of individuals on the basis of sex/gender, race, and ethnicity, as well as the inclusion (or exclusion) of individuals of all ages (including children and older adults) to determine if it is justified in terms of the scientific goals and research strategy proposed. for additional information on review of the inclusion section, please refer to the guidelines for the review of inclusion in clinical research.the committee will evaluate the involvement of live vertebrate animals as part of the scientific assessment according to the following criteria: (1) description of proposed procedures involving animals, including species, strains, ages, sex, and total number to be used; (2) justifications for the use of animals versus alternative models and for the appropriateness of the species proposed; (3) interventions to minimize discomfort, distress, pain and injury; and (4) justification for euthanasia method if not consistent with the avma guidelines for the euthanasia of animals. reviewers will assess the use of chimpanzees as they would any other application proposing the use of vertebrate animals. for additional information on review of the vertebrate animals section, please refer to the worksheet for review of the vertebrate animal section.reviewers will assess whether materials or procedures proposed are potentially hazardous to research personnel and/or the environment, and if needed, determine whether adequate protection is proposed.not applicable.not applicable.not applicable.note: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023, the data sharing plan and genomic data sharing plan (gds) as part of the resource sharing plan will not be evaluated at time of review.as applicable for the project proposed, reviewers will consider each of the following items, but will not give scores for these items, and should not consider them in providing an overall impact score.reviewers will assess whether the project presents special opportunities for furthering research programs through the use of unusual talent, resources, populations, or environmental conditions that exist in other countries and either are not readily available in the united states or augment existing u.s. resources.reviewers will assess the information provided in this section of the application, including 1) the select agent(s) to be used in the proposed research, 2) the registration status of all entities where select agent(s) will be used, 3) the procedures that will be used to monitor possession use and transfer of select agent(s), and 4) plans for appropriate biosafety, biocontainment, and security of the select agent(s).reviewers will comment on whether the following resource sharing plans, or the rationale for not sharing the following types of resources, are reasonable: (1) data sharing plan; (2) sharing model organisms; and (3) genomic data sharing plan (gds).for projects involving key biological and/or chemical resources, reviewers will comment on the brief plans proposed for identifying and ensuring the validity of those resources.reviewers will consider whether the budget and the requested period of support are fully justified and reasonable in relation to the proposed research.2. review and selection processapplications will be evaluated for scientific and technical merit by (an) appropriate scientific review group(s) convened by niddk, in accordance with nih peer review policy and procedures, using the stated review criteria. assignment to a scientific review group will be shown in the era commons.as part of the scientific peer review, all applications will receive a written critique.applications may undergo a selection process in which only those applications deemed to have the highest scientific and technical merit (generally the top half of applications under review) will be discussed and assigned an overall impact score.appeals of initial peer review will not be accepted for applications submitted in response to this foa.3. anticipated announcement and award datesafter the peer review of the application is completed, the pd/pi will be able to access his or her summary statement (written critique) via the era commons. refer to part 1 for dates for peer review, advisory council review, and earliest start date.information regarding the disposition of applications is available in the nih grants policy statement.1. award noticesif the application is under consideration for funding, nih will request "just-in-time" information from the applicant as described in the nih grants policy statement.a formal notification in the form of a notice of award (noa) will be provided to the applicant organization for successful applications. the noa signed by the grants management officer is the authorizing document and will be sent via email to the recipient's business official.recipients must comply with any funding restrictions described in section iv.6. funding restrictions. selection of an application for award is not an authorization to begin performance. any costs incurred before receipt of the noa are at the recipient's risk. these costs may be reimbursed only to the extent considered allowable pre-award costs.any application awarded in response to this foa will be subject to terms and conditions found on the award conditions and information for nih grants website. this includes any recent legislation and policy applicable to awards that is highlighted on this website.individual awards are based on the application submitted to, and as approved by, the nih and are subject to the ic-specific terms and conditions identified in the noa.institutional review board or independent ethics committee approval: recipient institutions must ensure that protocols are reviewed by their irb or iec. to help ensure the safety of participants enrolled in nih-funded studies, the recipient must provide nih copies of documents related to all major changes in the status of ongoing protocols.2. administrative and national policy requirementsall nih grant and cooperative agreement awards include the nih grants policy statement as part of the noa. for these terms of award, see the nih grants policy statement part ii: terms and conditions of nih grant awards, subpart a: generaland part ii: terms and conditions of nih grant awards, subpart b: terms and conditions for specific types of grants, recipients, and activities, including of note, but not limited to:if a recipient is successful and receives a notice of award, in accepting the award, the recipient agrees that any activities under the award are subject to all provisions currently in effect or implemented during the period of the award, other department regulations and policies in effect at the time of the award, and applicable statutory provisions.should the applicant organization successfully compete for an award, recipients of federal financial assistance (ffa) from hhs must administer their programs in compliance with federal civil rights laws that prohibit discrimination on the basis of race, color, national origin, disability, age and, in some circumstances, religion, conscience, and sex (including gender identify, sexual orientation, and pregnancy). this includes ensuring programs are accessible to persons with limited english proficiency and persons with disabilities. the hhs office for civil rights provides guidance on complying with civil rights laws enforced by hhs. please see https://www.hhs.gov/civil-rights/for-providers/provider-obligations/index.html and https://www.hhs.gov/civil-rights/for-individuals/nondiscrimination/index.htmlhhs recognizes that research projects are often limited in scope for many reasons that are nondiscriminatory, such as the principal investigator’s scientific interest, funding limitations, recruitment requirements, and other considerations. thus, criteria in research protocols that target or exclude certain populations are warranted where nondiscriminatory justifications establish that such criteria are appropriate with respect to the health or safety of the subjects, the scientific study design, or the purpose of the research. for additional guidance regarding how the provisions apply to nih grant programs, please contact the scientific/research contact that is identified in section vii under agency contacts of this foa.please contact the hhs office for civil rights for more information about obligations and prohibitions under federal civil rights laws at https://www.hhs.gov/ocr/about-us/contact-us/index.html or call 1-800-368-1019 or tdd 1-800-537-7697.in accordance with the statutory provisions contained in section 872 of the duncan hunter national defense authorization act of fiscal year 2009 (public law 110-417), nih awards will be subject to the federal awardee performance and integrity information system (fapiis) requirements. fapiis requires federal award making officials to review and consider information about an applicant in the designated integrity and performance system (currently fapiis) prior to making an award. an applicant, at its option, may review information in the designated integrity and performance systems accessible through fapiis and comment on any information about itself that a federal agency previously entered and is currently in fapiis. the federal awarding agency will consider any comments by the applicant, in addition to other information in fapiis, in making a judgement about the applicant’s integrity, business ethics, and record of performance under federal awards when completing the review of risk posed by applicants as described in 45 cfr part 75.205 and 2 cfr part 200.206 “federal awarding agency review of risk posed by applicants.” this provision will apply to all nih grants and cooperative agreements except fellowships.the following special terms of award are in addition to, and not in lieu of, otherwise applicable u.s. office of management and budget (omb) administrative guidelines, u.s. department of health and human services (dhhs) grant administration regulations at 45 cfr part 75, 2 cfr part 200, and other hhs, phs, and nih grant administration policies.the administrative and funding instrument used for this program will be the cooperative agreement u24, an "assistance" mechanism (rather than an "acquisition" mechanism), in which substantial nih programmatic involvement with the recipients is anticipated during the performance of the activities. under the cooperative agreement, the nih purpose is to support and stimulate the recipients' activities by working jointly with the award recipients in a partnership role; it is not to assume direction, prime responsibility, or a dominant role in the activities. consistent with this concept, the dominant role and prime responsibility resides with the recipients for the project as a whole, although specific tasks and activities may be shared among the recipients and the nih as defined below.the pd(s)/pi(s) will have the primary responsibility for:nih staff have substantial programmatic involvement that is above and beyond the normal stewardship role in awards, as described below:areas of joint responsibility include:after the award an initial face-to-face meeting between the project scientist, other relevant nih staff, and the recipients will be scheduled. this meeting will have the main purpose of jumpstarting the project and evaluating and modifying as necessary the proposed milestones.expert scientific panel (esp)an independent panel of three to five scientific experts (esp) will be appointed by the hirn steering committee, and meet at least once a year. the pankbase-esp will be updated on progress and give feedback to the hirn steering committee on adjustments and future directions.dispute resolutiondisagreements that may arise in scientific/technical matter or programmatic matters (within the scope of the award) between award recipients and the niddk may be brought to arbitration. the arbitration panel will be composed of the principal investigator, one nih designee, and a third designee from the independent panel of review experts. this special dispute resolution procedures in no way affect the recipient's right to appeal an adverse action in accordance with phs regulations at 42 cfr part 50, subpart d, and hhs regulations at 45 cfr part 16.data management and sharingnote: the nih policy for data management and sharing is effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023.consistent with the nih policy for data management and sharing, when data management and sharing is applicable to the award, recipients will be required to adhere to the data management and sharing requirements as outlined in the nih grants policy statement. upon the approval of a data management and sharing plan, it is required for recipients to implement the plan as described.3. reportingwhen multiple years are involved, recipients will be required to submit the research performance progress report (rppr) annually and financial statements as required in the nih grants policy statement.a final rppr, invention statement, and the expenditure data portion of the federal financial report are required for closeout of an award, as described in the nih grants policy statement. nih foas outline intended research goals and objectives. post award, nih will review and measure performance based on the details and outcomes that are shared within the rppr, as described at 45 cfr part 75.301 and 2 cfr part 200.301.the federal funding accountability and transparency act of 2006 (transparency act), includes a requirement for recipients of federal grants to report information about first-tier subawards and executive compensation under federal assistance awards issued in fy2011 or later. all recipients of applicable nih grants and cooperative agreements are required to report to the federal subaward reporting system (fsrs) available at www.fsrs.gov on all subawards over the threshold. see the nih grants policy statement for additional information on this reporting requirement.in accordance with the regulatory requirements provided at 45 cfr 75.113 and 2 cfr part 200.113 and appendix xii to 45 cfr part 75 and 2 cfr part 200, recipients that have currently active federal grants, cooperative agreements, and procurement contracts from all federal awarding agencies with a cumulative total value greater than $10,000,000 for any period of time during the period of performance of a federal award, must report and maintain the currency of information reported in the system for award management (sam) about civil, criminal, and administrative proceedings in connection with the award or performance of a federal award that reached final disposition within the most recent five-year period. the recipient must also make semiannual disclosures regarding such proceedings. proceedings information will be made publicly available in the designated integrity and performance system (currently fapiis). this is a statutory requirement under section 872 of public law 110-417, as amended (41 u.s.c. 2313). as required by section 3010 of public law 111-212, all information posted in the designated integrity and performance system on or after april 15, 2011, except past performance reviews required for federal procurement contracts, will be publicly available. full reporting requirements and procedures are found in appendix xii to 45 cfr part 75 and 2 cfr part 200 – award term and condition for recipient integrity and performance matters.we encourage inquiries concerning this funding opportunity and welcome the opportunity to answer questions from potential applicants.era service desk (questions regarding assist, era commons, application errors and warnings, documenting system problems that threaten submission by the due date, and post-submission issues)finding help online: http://grants.nih.gov/support/ (preferred method of contact) telephone: 301-402-7469 or 866-504-9552 (toll free)general grants information (questions regarding application instructions, application processes, and nih grant resources) email: grantsinfo@nih.gov (preferred method of contact) telephone: 301-945-7573grants.gov customer support (questions regarding grants.gov registration and workspace) contact center telephone: 800-518-4726 email: support@grants.govxujing wangnational institute of diabetes and digestive and kidney diseases (niddk)telephone: 301-451-2862 email: xujing.wang@mail.nih.govann a. jerkins, ph.d. national institute of diabetes and digestive and kidney diseases (niddk) telephone: 301-594-2242 email:ann.jerkins@nih.govcraig bagdonnational institute of diabetes and digestive and kidney diseases (niddk)301-594-2115bagdonc@mail.nih.govrecently issued trans-nih policy notices may affect your application submission. a full list of policy notices published by nih is provided in the nih guide for grants and contracts. all awards are subject to the terms and conditions, cost principles, and other considerations described in the nih grants policy statement.awards are made under the authorization of sections 301 and 405 of the public health service act as amended (42 usc 241 and 284) and under federal regulations 42 cfr part 52 and 45 cfr part 75 and 2 cfr part 200.weekly toc for this announcement nih funding opportunities and noticesnote: for help accessing pdf, rtf, ms word, excel, powerpoint, audio or video files, see help downloading files.