Clinical Trials Development for Co-Occurring Conditions in Individuals with Down syndrome: Phased Awards for INCLUDE (R61/R33 Clinical Trial Required)
https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/rfa-files/RFA-OD-22-010.html
national institutes of health (nih)office of the director, national institutes of health (od) national eye institute (nei) national heart, lung, and blood institute (nhlbi) national institute on aging (nia) national institute of arthritis and musculoskeletal and skin diseases (niams) eunice kennedy shriver national institute of child health and human development (nichd) national institute on deafness and other communication disorders (nidcd) national institute of neurological disorders and stroke (ninds) national cancer institute (nci)national eye institute (nei)national heart, lung, and blood institute (nhlbi)national institute on aging (nia)national institute of arthritis and musculoskeletal and skin diseases (niams)eunice kennedy shriver national institute of child health and human development (nichd)national institute on deafness and other communication disorders (nidcd)national institute of neurological disorders and stroke (ninds)national cancer institute (nci)r61/r33 exploratory/developmental phased awardnot-od-23-012 reminder: forms-h grant application forms and instructions must be used for due dates on or after january 25, 2023 - new grant application instructions now availablenot-od-22-190 - adjustments to nih and ahrq grant application due dates between september 22 and september 30, 2022see section iii. 3. additional information on eligibility.the nih investigation of co-occurring conditions across the lifespan to understand down syndrome (include) project seeks to improve health and quality-of-life for individuals with down syndrome. this funding opportunity announcement (foa) encourages exploratory/developmental phased innovation (r61/r33) grant applications to support development of clinical trials to treat critical and co-occurring health conditions in individuals with down syndrome. the proposed research aims should be milestone-driven. the total project period for an application submitted in response to this foa may not exceed five years. this foa provides support for up to two years (r61 phase) for preliminary/developmental/planning studies, followed by possible transition to clinical trial support (r33) of up to three years, although the total duration of the award may not exceed five years. this foa requires measurable r61 milestones.30 days prior to the application due dateall applications are due by 5:00 pm local time of applicant organization.applicants are encouraged to apply early to allow adequate time to make any corrections to errors found in the application during the submission process by the due date.not applicableit is critical that applicants follow the instructions in the research (r) instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, except where instructed to do otherwise (in this foa or in a notice from nih guide for grants and contracts).conformance to all requirements (both in the application guide and the foa) is required and strictly enforced. applicants must read and follow all application instructions in the application guide as well as any program-specific instructions noted in section iv. when the program-specific instructions deviate from those in the application guide, follow the program-specific instructions.applications that do not comply with these instructions may be delayed or not accepted for review.there are several options available to submit your application through grants.gov to nih and department of health and human services partners. you must use one of these submission options to access the application forms for this opportunity.purposethe nih investigation of co-occurring conditions across the lifespan to understand down syndrome (include) project seeks to improve health and quality-of-life for individuals with down syndrome. this foa requests research grant applications to support development of clinical trials to treat critical and co-occurring health conditions in individuals with down syndrome. the overarching emphasis is on the acquisition of knowledge that can be translated into new, enhanced, or tailored therapies for treating down syndrome and its co-occurring conditions. applications should focus on delivering better healthcare outcomes and should seek solutions that are effective and deliverable. this foa will support clinical trial research to develop or test new and innovative adaptations of current drugs, interventions, and therapies for the treatment and management of co-occurring conditions in down syndrome. these therapies should be implementable and sustainable in clinical settings beyond the research environment. research applications may address a particular co-occurring condition at a particular stage of development or across the lifespan in people with down syndrome. outcomes research and health services research related to down syndrome are also responsive to this foa. since some aspects of this research area may be new for the trans-nih scientific community, there will likely be a need to obtain preliminary data or conduct early-stage clinical trial preparatory activities before moving to a full-scale project. the exploratory/developmental phased innovation (r61/r33) grant mechanism is appropriate for this purpose. it provides opportunities for creating, developing, and strengthening new and necessary collaborations, as well as acquisition of preliminary data, and allows for milestone-driven research, supporting a phased research project with a stepped approach for implementation of a clinical trial. applications that require a significant investment of resources for development of clinical outcome assessments, biomarkers, or limited natural history data may be submitted under the “down syndrome clinical trial readiness foa (rfa-od-20-004).” those that are more basic science focused may be more appropriate for rfa-od-22-009"transformative research award for the include (investigation of co-occurring conditions across the lifespan to understand down syndrome) project (r01 clinical trial not allowed)." applications not requiring a phased research approach are encouraged to apply under a different funding mechanism (e.g., investigator-initiated r21 or r01).backgrounddown syndrome is the most common genetic cause of intellectual disability, the most common autosomal trisomy, and one of the most visible and universally recognized genetic syndromes. each year there are approximately 5300 babies born in the united states with down syndrome. within the past 25 years, the average lifespan for a person with down syndrome has doubled, from 30 to 60 years. despite this increase in lifespan, individuals with down syndrome and their families face significant and changing health challenges with age, and they have often been excluded from participation in research that could improve their health outcomes and quality of life. while all people with down syndrome are connected by the common feature of a complete or partial copy of chromosome 21 (trisomy 21), there are significant physical and cognitive differences among them, indicating that inter-individual variability exists.down syndrome is associated with an increased prevalence of autism and epilepsy. about 75% of individuals experience cognitive decline in a syndrome that resembles alzheimer’s disease but has its onset a decade or two earlier than typical alzheimer’s disease. individuals with down syndrome also have high rates of hearing loss, eye abnormalities, congenital heart defects, sleep apnea, pulmonary hypertension, gastrointestinal malformations, thyroid disease, leukemia, and other autoimmune or immune dysregulation disorders including celiac disease. however, people with down syndrome infrequently develop solid tumors such as breast or prostate cancer, and despite multiple risk factors for coronary artery disease and high rates of obesity, sleep apnea, and type 1 diabetes, they rarely develop atherosclerosis or have myocardial infarctions. understanding this unique combination of risk and resiliencies will inform medical advances for individuals with down syndrome, and for individuals who do not have down syndrome but share these co-occurring conditions.this foa is one of several trans-nih research initiatives created in response to fiscal year 2018, 2019, 2020, and 2021 omnibus appropriations reports, which encourage nih to expand its current efforts on down syndrome and common co-occurring conditions also seen in the general population, while increasing the pipeline of down syndrome investigators. together, the initiatives are called the include project (investigation of co-occurring conditions across the lifespan to understand down syndrome). information about projects that were funded in prior years, as well as the nih include down syndrome research plan, are available on the include project website at https://www.nih.gov/include-project/. the include project has three components:scopethis foa addresses component 3 of the include project. specifically, it is designed to encourage research and increase infrastructure support of clinical trials for co-occurring conditions in individuals with down syndrome. this includes research on the development of technologies (e.g., wearables to monitor biomarkers of health), screening (e.g., effectiveness in typical primary care settings), access and management through new delivery systems (e.g., telehealth), system barriers (e.g., availability of services) as well as behavioral research at the individual patient level (e.g., patient outcomes). research is needed to develop or test new and innovative adaptations of current drugs, interventions, and therapies, for the treatment and management of co-occurring conditions in down syndrome. solutions should be implementable and sustainable in settings beyond the research environment and should have the potential to address disparities in health care for individuals with down syndrome.infrastructure support may include the creation of research partnerships among interested organizations (e.g., academia, practice-based research networks, community-based health care organizations, industry, and professional and patient organizations). it may also include support for creating pooled clinical data sets across institutions, agencies, or health care systems to analyze characteristics of patient populations, provider or health care settings and patient outcomes.clinical trials researchers may focus on repurposing of existing therapies as well as developing new ones for the unique needs of the down syndrome population. approaches could include: (1) obtaining de-identified clinical data, and working with the investigators of prior failed clinical trials to determine “lessons learned,” with a particular focus on inter-individual variation; (2) testing existing therapies for conditions that occur in both the general population and in people with down syndrome, since their responses to therapy may not be the same as a result of differences in metabolism (for example, standard treatments for leukemia cause exaggerated toxicity in infants with down syndrome); or (3) testing new therapies that may arise as a result of the basic science studies performed under the auspices of component 1, building on the biobanked specimens and the participant data from component 2. responsive r61/r33 applications must be milestone-driven and may include, but are not limited to, the following questions and research needs:the clinical trial preparatory and/or piloting portion of the research occurs during the r61 phase of the research plan, and implementation and/or clinical trial occurs within the r33 phase. transition from the r61 phase to the r33 phase is contingent on successful completion of milestones delineated in the application and is subsequently approved by nih staff (see section iv.6). at the end of a successful r61/r33, it is expected that there will be measurable and documented advances to address critical health needs related to co-occurring conditions for individuals with down syndrome.as an example, in the r61 portion of the application the pd/pi may propose pilot work in which investigators pilot delivery of a hearing intervention to individuals with down syndrome and hearing loss using a new delivery system. upon proof of the feasibility of such an approach, the r33 phase would provide funds to perform a clinical trial on a larger population. a second example might be one in which a new technology is developed or refined. upon completion of the technology development and readiness (r61 phase), the r33 phase would evaluate the utilization of this tool in a larger clinical population. a third example may be one in which in the r61 phase, questionnaires are developed and piloted addressing relevant outcomes for those with down syndrome and hearing loss. upon completion, the r33 phase would utilize the questionnaire in a clinical trial.studies may include research focused on development or testing new and innovative adaptations of current drugs, interventions, and therapies, for the treatment and management of co-occurring conditions in down syndrome.investigators are strongly encouraged to contact nih program staff to ensure that their applications are responsive.applications are assigned to participating institutes and centers (ics) based on receipt and referral guidelines, and applications may be assigned to multiple participating ics with related research interests. applicants are encouraged to identify a participating ic that supports their area of research and contact scientific/research staff from relevant ics to inquire about their interest in supporting the proposed research project via the include website, which lists ic-specific funding priorities, as well as contacts for each participating ic. questions about the suitability of applications can also be addressed to the research/scientific (program) contact listed in the "agency contacts" section of this foa.projects that propose to recruit subjects with down syndrome are encouraged to promote enrollment of research subjects in the down syndrome patient registry supported by nih, ds-connect®. for biospecimens collected from human genetic or non-genetic studies, awardees are encouraged to use biorepositories designated by include staff that meet requirements for broad sharing. an nih resource describing common data elements may be helpful during the planning phases of a project when considering ways to optimize data collection in order to facilitate broad data sharing. for those applications that generate clinical data, it is expected that the data sharing plan will include the include data coordinating center (dcc).see section viii. other information for award authorities and regulations.grant: a support mechanism providing money, property, or both to an eligible entity to carry out an approved project or activity.newthe oer glossary and the sf424 (r&r) application guide provide details on these application types. only those application types listed here are allowed for this foa.required: only accepting applications that propose clinical trial(s).need help determining whether you are doing a clinical trial?the nih intends to commit total costs of at least $4,000,000 in fy2022 to fund up to 4 awards.the number of awards is contingent upon nih appropriations and the submission of a sufficient number of meritorious applications. future year amounts will depend on annual appropriations.application budgets for the r61 phase and the r33 phase are not limited but need to reflect the actual needs of the proposed project.the scope of the proposed project should determine the project period. the maximum period of the combined r61 and r33 phases is 5 years, with up to 2 years for the r61 phase and up to 3 years for the r33 phase.nih grants policies as described in the nih grants policy statement will apply to the applications submitted and awards made from this foa.1. eligible applicantshigher education institutionsthe following types of higher education institutions are always encouraged to apply for nih support as public or private institutions of higher education:nonprofits other than institutions of higher educationfor-profit organizationslocal governmentsfederal governmentsothernon-domestic (non-u.s.) entities (foreign institutions) are eligible to apply.non-domestic (non-u.s.) components of u.s. organizations are eligible to apply.foreign components, as defined in the nih grants policy statement, are allowed.applicant organizationsapplicant organizations must complete and maintain the following registrations as described in the sf 424 (r&r) application guide to be eligible to apply for or receive an award. all registrations must be completed prior to the application being submitted. registration can take 6 weeks or more, so applicants should begin the registration process as soon as possible. the nih policy on late submission of grant applications states that failure to complete registrations in advance of a due date is not a valid reason for a late submission.program directors/principal investigators (pd(s)/pi(s))all pd(s)/pi(s) must have an era commons account. pd(s)/pi(s) should work with their organizational officials to either create a new account or to affiliate their existing account with the applicant organization in era commons. if the pd/pi is also the organizational signing official, they must have two distinct era commons accounts, one for each role. obtaining an era commons account can take up to 2 weeks.any individual(s) with the skills, knowledge, and resources necessary to carry out the proposed research as the program director(s)/principal investigator(s) (pd(s)/pi(s)) is invited to work with his/her organization to develop an application for support. individuals from underrepresented racial and ethnic groups as well as individuals with disabilities are always encouraged to apply for nih support.for institutions/organizations proposing multiple pds/pis, visit the multiple program director/principal investigator policy and submission details in the senior/key person profile (expanded) component of the sf424 (r&r) application guide.2. cost sharingthis foa does not require cost sharing as defined in the nih grants policy statement.3. additional information on eligibilitynumber of applicationsapplicant organizations may submit more than one application, provided that each application is scientifically distinct.the nih will not accept duplicate or highly overlapping applications under review at the same time, per 2.3.7.4 submission of resubmission application. this means that the nih will not accept:1. requesting an application packagethe application forms package specific to this opportunity must be accessed through assist, grants.gov workspace or an institutional system-to-system solution. links to apply using assist or grants.gov workspace are available in part 1 of this foa. see your administrative office for instructions if you plan to use an institutional system-to-system solution.2. content and form of application submissionletter of intentalthough a letter of intent is not required, is not binding, and does not enter into the review of a subsequent application, the information that it contains allows ic staff to estimate the potential review workload and plan the review.by the date listed in part 1. overview information, prospective applicants are asked to submit a letter of intent that includes the following information:the letter of intent should be sent to:natalia komissarova, ph.d. center for scientific review telephone: 301-435-1206 email: komissar@mail.nih.govpage limitationsall page limitations described in the sf424 application guide and the table of page limits must be followed.instructions for application submissionnote: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023, the data management and sharing (dms) plan will be attached in the other plan(s) attachment in forms-h and subsequent application forms packages. for due dates on or before january 24, 2023, the data sharing plan and genomic data sharing plan gds) will continue to be attached in the resource sharing plan attachment in forms-g application forms packages.the following section supplements the instructions found in the sf424 (r&r) application guide and should be used for preparing an application to this foa.sf424(r&r) coverall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.sf424(r&r) project/performance site locationsall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.sf424(r&r) other project informationall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.recruitment plan to enhance diversitythe applicant must provide a recruitment plan (when applicable) to enhance diversity. the application should include outreach strategies and activities designed to recruit potential participants who are from diverse backgrounds, including participants from underrepresented racial and ethnic groups (see https://www.nimhd.nih.gov/about/overview/). describe the specific efforts to be undertaken by the participating investigators to coordinate with efforts to recruit individuals from underrepresented groups. please name the file "recruitment plan.pdf".sf424(r&r) senior/key person profileall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.r&r budgetall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.budgets should include all costs associated with data safety and monitoring board (dsmb) activities, including preparing reports for the dsmb, assessing dsmb member conflict of interest, meeting reimbursement for dsmb members, and support for at least one dsmb meeting per year.r&r subaward budgetall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.phs 398 cover page supplementall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.phs 398 research planother plan(s):note: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023, the data management and sharing plan will be attached in the other plan(s) attachment in forms-h and subsequent application forms packages. for due dates on or before january 24, 2023, the data sharing plan and genomic data sharing plan gds) will continue to be attached in the resource sharing plan attachment in forms-g application forms packages.all applicants planning research (funded or conducted in whole or in part by nih) that results in the generation of scientific data are required to comply with the instructions for the data management and sharing plan. all applications, regardless of the amount of direct costs requested for any one year, must address a data management and sharing plan.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed, with the following additional instructions:research strategythe research strategy should contain separate subsections that describe the r61 and the r33 phases:the clinical trial preparatory and/or piloting portion of the research occurs during the r61 phase. this subsection should describe the need for conducting the trial preparatory and/or piloting study activities. applicants should describe the clinical trial needs (e.g., biomarker or clinical outcomes validation or qualification, feasibility studies, cohort development, etc.) that will be addressed by the r61 phase.the implementation and/or clinical trial occurs within the r33 phase. this subsection should describe the clinical trial that will be initiated following successful completion of the milestones delineated in the r61 phase.milestones and r61/r33 transitionthe application must include milestones the researchers expect to achieve by the end of the r61 phase, as well as milestones for the r33 phase. milestones should be specific, quantifiable, and scientifically justified; they should not be a restatement of the specific aims for the r61 phase. it is recommended that pd(s)/pi(s) include a section labeled "milestones" describing milestones to be achieved during the r61 phase to qualify for the transition to the r33. it is understood that the proposed milestones for the r33 phase may be revised based on activities during the r61 phase. in the event of an award, the pd(s)/pi(s) and nih staff will negotiate the list of milestones for each award phase.resource sharing plan: individuals are required to comply with the instructions for the resource sharing plans as provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.the following modifications also apply:all applications, regardless of the amount of direct costs requested for any one year, should address a data sharing plan.nih intends to maximize the impact of include-supported projects through broad and rapid data sharing. consistent with the priorities of the include project, all applications, regardless of the amount of direct costs requested for any one year, are required to include a data management and sharing plan outlining how scientific data and any accompanying metadata will be managed and shared, regardless of whether the data are used to support scholarly publication. the plan should describe data types, file formats, submission timelines, and standards used in collecting or processing the data. it is expected that all de-identified human data generated by include-funded projects will be submitted to nih-designated repositories in coordination with the include data coordinating center (dcc). all applications generating human genomic data should include, as an attachment, an institutional certification (https://osp.od.nih.gov/scientific-sharing/institutional-certifications/) which indicates the data use limitations and/or modifiers stating how individual level sequence data can be shared with and used by secondary users, under the guidance of the nih genomic data sharing policy: http://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/notice-files/not-od-14-124.html. for more information regarding include data sharing, visithttps://www.nih.gov/include-project/frequently-asked-questions.considerationsto maximize comparisons across datasets or studies, and facilitate data integration and collaboration, applications submitted in response to this rfa are strongly encouraged to incorporate the following standards and resources (where applicable):appendix:only limited appendix materials are allowed. follow all instructions for the appendix as described in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.phs human subjects and clinical trials informationwhen involving human subjects research, clinical research, and/or nih-defined clinical trials (and when applicable, clinical trials research experience) follow all instructions for the phs human subjects and clinical trials information form in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, with the following additional instructions:if you answered “yes” to the question “are human subjects involved?” on the r&r other project information form, you must include at least one human subjects study record using the study record: phs human subjects and clinical trials information form or delayed onset study record.study record: phs human subjects and clinical trials informationall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.delayed onset studynote: delayed onset does not apply to a study that can be described but will not start immediately (i.e., delayed start).all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.phs assignment request formall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.foreign institutionsforeign (non-u.s.) institutions must follow policies described in the nih grants policy statement, and procedures for foreign institutions described throughout the sf424 (r&r) application guide.3. unique entity identifier and system for award management (sam)see part 1. section iii.1 for information regarding the requirement for obtaining a unique entity identifier and for completing and maintaining active registrations in system for award management (sam), nato commercial and government entity (ncage) code (if applicable), era commons, and grants.gov.4. submission dates and timespart i. overview information contains information about key dates and times. applicants are encouraged to submit applications before the due date to ensure they have time to make any application corrections that might be necessary for successful submission. when a submission date falls on a weekend or federal holiday, the application deadline is automatically extended to the next business day.organizations must submit applications to grants.gov (the online portal to find and apply for grants across all federal agencies). applicants must then complete the submission process by tracking the status of the application in the era commons, nih’s electronic system for grants administration. nih and grants.gov systems check the application against many of the application instructions upon submission. errors must be corrected and a changed/corrected application must be submitted to grants.gov on or before the application due date and time. if a changed/corrected application is submitted after the deadline, the application will be considered late. applications that miss the due date and time are subjected to the nih policy on late application submission.applicants are responsible for viewing their application before the due date in the era commons to ensure accurate and successful submission.information on the submission process and a definition of on-time submission are provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.5. intergovernmental review (e.o. 12372)this initiative is not subject to intergovernmental review.6. funding restrictionsall nih awards are subject to the terms and conditions, cost principles, and other considerations described in the nih grants policy statement.pre-award costs are allowable only as described in the nih grants policy statement.7. other submission requirements and informationapplications must be submitted electronically following the instructions described in the sf424 (r&r) application guide. paper applications will not be accepted.applicants must complete all required registrations before the application due date. section iii. eligibility information contains information about registration.for assistance with your electronic application or for more information on the electronic submission process, visit how to apply – application guide. if you encounter a system issue beyond your control that threatens your ability to complete the submission process on-time, you must follow the dealing with system issues guidance. for assistance with application submission, contact the application submission contacts in section vii.important reminders:all pd(s)/pi(s) must include their era commons id in the credential fieldof the senior/key person profile form. failure to register in the commons and to include a valid pd/pi commons id in the credential field will prevent the successful submission of an electronic application to nih. see section iii of this foa for information on registration requirements.the applicant organization must ensure that the unique entity identifier (duns number or uei as required) provided on the application is the same number used in the organization’s profile in the era commons and for the system for award management. additional information may be found in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.see more tips for avoiding common errors.upon receipt, applications will be evaluated for completeness and compliance with application instructions by the center for scientific review and responsiveness by components of participating organizations, nih. applications that are incomplete, non-compliant and/or nonresponsive will not be reviewed.post submission materialsapplicants are required to follow the instructions for post-submission materials, as described in the policy. any instructions provided here are in addition to the instructions in the policy.1. criterianote: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023, the data sharing plan and genomic data sharing plan (gds) as part of the resource sharing plan will not be evaluated at time of review.only the review criteria described below will be considered in the review process. applications submitted to the nih in support of the nih mission are evaluated for scientific and technical merit through the nih peer review system.a proposed clinical trial application may include study design, methods, and intervention that are not by themselves innovative but address important questions or unmet needs. additionally, the results of the clinical trial may indicate that further clinical development of the intervention is unwarranted or lead to new avenues of scientific investigation.overall impactreviewers will provide an overall impact score to reflect their assessment of the likelihood for the project to exert a sustained, powerful influence on the research field(s) involved, in consideration of the following review criteria and additional review criteria (as applicable for the project proposed).reviewers will consider each of the review criteria below in the determination of scientific merit, and give a separate score for each. an application does not need to be strong in all categories to be judged likely to have major scientific impact. for example, a project that by its nature is not innovative may be essential to advance a field.does the project address an important problem or a critical barrier to progress in the field? is the prior research that serves as the key support for the proposed project rigorous? if the aims of the project are achieved, how will scientific knowledge, technical capability, and/or clinical practice be improved? how will successful completion of the aims change the concepts, methods, technologies, treatments, services, or preventative interventions that drive this field?are the scientific rationale and need for a clinical trial to test the proposed hypothesis or intervention well supported by preliminary data, clinical and/or preclinical studies, or information in the literature or knowledge of biological mechanisms? for trials focusing on clinical or public health endpoints, is this clinical trial necessary for testing the safety, efficacy or effectiveness of an intervention that could lead to a change in clinical practice, community behaviors or health care policy? for trials focusing on mechanistic, behavioral, physiological, biochemical, or other biomedical endpoints, is this trial needed to advance scientific understanding?are the pd(s)/pi(s), collaborators, and other researchers well suited to the project? if early stage investigators or those in the early stages of independent careers, do they have appropriate experience and training? if established, have they demonstrated an ongoing record of accomplishments that have advanced their field(s)? if the project is collaborative or multi-pd/pi, do the investigators have complementary and integrated expertise; are their leadership approach, governance and organizational structure appropriate for the project?with regard to the proposed leadership for the project, do the pd/pi(s) and key personnel have the expertise, experience, and ability to organize, manage and implement the proposed clinical trial and meet milestones and timelines? do they have appropriate expertise in study coordination, data management and statistics? for a multicenter trial, is the organizational structure appropriate and does the application identify a core of potential center investigators and staffing for a coordinating center?does the application challenge and seek to shift current research or clinical practice paradigms by utilizing novel theoretical concepts, approaches or methodologies, instrumentation, or interventions? are the concepts, approaches or methodologies, instrumentation, or interventions novel to one field of research or novel in a broad sense? is a refinement, improvement, or new application of theoretical concepts, approaches or methodologies, instrumentation, or interventions proposed?does the design/research plan include innovative elements, as appropriate, that enhance its sensitivity, potential for information or potential to advance scientific knowledge or clinical practice?are the overall strategy, methodology, and analyses well-reasoned and appropriate to accomplish the specific aims of the project? have the investigators included plans to address weaknesses in the rigor of prior research that serves as the key support for the proposed project? have the investigators presented strategies to ensure a robust and unbiased approach, as appropriate for the work proposed? are potential problems, alternative strategies, and benchmarks for success presented? if the project is in the early stages of development, will the strategy establish feasibility and will particularly risky aspects be managed? have the investigators presented adequate plans to address relevant biological variables, such as sex, for studies in vertebrate animals or human subjects?if the project involves human subjects and/or nih-defined clinical research, are the plans to address 1) the protection of human subjects from research risks, and 2) inclusion (or exclusion) of individuals on the basis of sex/gender, race, and ethnicity, as well as the inclusion or exclusion of individuals of all ages (including children and older adults), justified in terms of the scientific goals and research strategy proposed?in addition, for applications involving clinical trials, does the application adequately address the following, if applicablestudy designis the study design justified and appropriate to address primary and secondary outcome variable(s)/endpoints that will be clear, informative and relevant to the hypothesis being tested? is the scientific rationale/premise of the study based on previously well-designed preclinical and/or clinical research? given the methods used to assign participants and deliver interventions, is the study design adequately powered to answer the research question(s), test the proposed hypothesis/hypotheses, and provide interpretable results? is the trial appropriately designed to conduct the research efficiently? are the study populations (size, gender, age, demographic group), proposed intervention arms/dose, and duration of the trial, appropriate and well justified?are potential ethical issues adequately addressed? is the process for obtaining informed consent or assent appropriate? is the eligible population available? are the plans for recruitment outreach, enrollment, retention, handling dropouts, missed visits, and losses to follow-up appropriate to ensure robust data collection? are the planned recruitment timelines feasible and is the plan to monitor accrual adequate? has the need for randomization (or not), masking (if appropriate), controls, and inclusion/exclusion criteria been addressed? are differences addressed, if applicable, in the intervention effect due to sex/gender and race/ethnicity?are the plans to standardize, assure quality of, and monitor adherence to, the trial protocol and data collection or distribution guidelines appropriate? is there a plan to obtain required study agent(s)? does the application propose to use existing available resources, as applicable?data management and statistical analysisare planned analyses and statistical approach appropriate for the proposed study design and methods used to assign participants and deliver interventions? are the procedures for data management and quality control of data adequate at clinical site(s) or at center laboratories, as applicable? have the methods for standardization of procedures for data management to assess the effect of the intervention and quality control been addressed? is there a plan to complete data analysis within the proposed period of the award?specific to this foato what extent are the listed milestones for each phase appropriate for the goals of the project? to what extent are the milestones specific, quantifiable, and scientifically justified?will the scientific environment in which the work will be done contribute to the probability of success? are the institutional support, equipment and other physical resources available to the investigators adequate for the project proposed? will the project benefit from unique features of the scientific environment, subject populations, or collaborative arrangements?if proposed, are the administrative, data coordinating, enrollment and laboratory/testing centers, appropriate for the trial proposed?does the application adequately address the capability and ability to conduct the trial at the proposed site(s) or centers? are the plans to add or drop enrollment centers, as needed, appropriate?if international site(s) is/are proposed, does the application adequately address the complexity of executing the clinical trial?if multi-sites/centers, is there evidence of the ability of the individual site or center to: (1) enroll the proposed numbers; (2) adhere to the protocol; (3) collect and transmit data in an accurate and timely fashion; and, (4) operate within the proposed organizational structure?individuals are required to comply with the instructions for the resource sharing plans as provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.the following modifications also apply:all applications, regardless of the amount of direct costs requested for any one year, should address a data sharing plan.nih intends to maximize the impact of include-supported projects through broad and rapid data sharing. consistent with the new nih policy for data management and sharing (https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/notice-files/not-od-21-013.html) and the priorities of the include project, all applications, regardless of the amount of direct costs requested for any one year, are required to include a data management and sharing plan outlining how scientific data and any accompanying metadata will be managed and shared, regardless of whether the data are used to support scholarly publication. the plan should describe data types, file formats, submission timelines, and standards used in collecting or processing the data. it is expected that all de-identified human data generated by include-funded projects will be submitted to nih-designated repositories in coordination with the include data coordinating center (dcc). all applications generating human genomic data should include, as an attachment, an institutional certification (https://osp.od.nih.gov/scientific-sharing/institutional-certifications/) which indicates the data use limitations and/or modifiers stating how individual level sequence data can be shared with and used by secondary users, under the guidance of the nih genomic data sharing policy: http://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/notice-files/not-od-14-124.html. for more information regarding include data sharing, visit https://www.nih.gov/include-project/frequently-asked-questions.considerationsto maximize comparisons across datasets or studies, and facilitate data integration and collaboration, applications submitted in response to this rfa are strongly encouraged to incorporate the following standards and resources (where applicable):projects that propose to recruit subjects with ds are encouraged to promote enrollment of research subjects in the ds patient registry supported by nih, ds-connect®.for biospecimens collected from human genetic or non-genetic studies, researchers are encouraged to use biorepositories designated by include staff that meet requirements for broad sharing.applicants are encouraged to ensure that data collected by the study conform to findable, accessible, interoperable, and reusable (fair) principles.nih encourages researchers to explore the use of the hl7 fhir® (fast healthcare interoperability https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/rfa-files/rfa-od-20-003.html resources) standard to capture, integrate, and exchange clinical data for research purposes and to enhance capabilities to share research data (not-od-19-122). the fhir® standard may be particularly useful in facilitating the flow of data with ehr-based datasets, tools, and applications.nih encourages clinical research programs and researchers to adopt and use the standardized set of data classes, data elements, and associated vocabulary standards specified in the united states core data for interoperability (uscdi) standards (not-od-20-146), as they are applicable. use of the uscdi can complement the fhir® standard and enable researchers to leverage structured ehr data for research and enable discovery.nih encourages the use of data standards including common data elements, such as those available through the phenx toolkit (www.phenxtoolkit.org) and the nih cde repository (cde.nlm.nih.gov), terminologies and ontologies such as mondo disease ontology (mondo.monarchinitiative.org), human phenotype ontology (hpo.jax.org), and common data models such as the observational medical outcomes partnership (omop; ohdsi.org).for studies that propose clinical trials, please consider submitting an application to rfa-od-22-010 (clinical trials development for co-occurring conditions in individuals with down syndrome: phased awards for include (r61/r33 clinical trial required)).as applicable for the project proposed, reviewers will evaluate the following additional items while determining scientific and technical merit, and in providing an overall impact score, but will not give separate scores for these items.is the study timeline described in detail, taking into account start-up activities, the anticipated rate of enrollment, and planned follow-up assessment? is the projected timeline feasible and well justified? does the project incorporate efficiencies and utilize existing resources (e.g., ctsas, practice-based research networks, electronic medical records, administrative database, or patient registries) to increase the efficiency of participant enrollment and data collection, as appropriate?are potential challenges and corresponding solutions discussed (e.g., strategies that can be implemented in the event of enrollment shortfalls)?for research that involves human subjects but does not involve one of the categories of research that are exempt under 45 cfr part 46, the committee will evaluate the justification for involvement of human subjects and the proposed protections from research risk relating to their participation according to the following five review criteria: 1) risk to subjects, 2) adequacy of protection against risks, 3) potential benefits to the subjects and others, 4) importance of the knowledge to be gained, and 5) data and safety monitoring for clinical trials.for research that involves human subjects and meets the criteria for one or more of the categories of research that are exempt under 45 cfr part 46, the committee will evaluate: 1) the justification for the exemption, 2) human subjects involvement and characteristics, and 3) sources of materials. for additional information on review of the human subjects section, please refer to the guidelines for the review of human subjects.when the proposed project involves human subjects and/or nih-defined clinical research, the committee will evaluate the proposed plans for the inclusion (or exclusion) of individuals on the basis of sex/gender, race, and ethnicity, as well as the inclusion (or exclusion) of individuals of all ages (including children and older adults) to determine if it is justified in terms of the scientific goals and research strategy proposed. for additional information on review of the inclusion section, please refer to the guidelines for the review of inclusion in clinical research.the committee will evaluate the involvement of live vertebrate animals as part of the scientific assessment according to the following criteria: (1) description of proposed procedures involving animals, including species, strains, ages, sex, and total number to be used; (2) justifications for the use of animals versus alternative models and for the appropriateness of the species proposed; (3) interventions to minimize discomfort, distress, pain and injury; and (4) justification for euthanasia method if not consistent with the avma guidelines for the euthanasia of animals. reviewers will assess the use of chimpanzees as they would any other application proposing the use of vertebrate animals. for additional information on review of the vertebrate animals section, please refer to the worksheet for review of the vertebrate animal section.reviewers will assess whether materials or procedures proposed are potentially hazardous to research personnel and/or the environment, and if needed, determine whether adequate protection is proposed.not applicablenot applicablenot applicablenote: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023, the data sharing plan and genomic data sharing plan (gds) as part of the resource sharing plan will not be evaluated at time of review.as applicable for the project proposed, reviewers will consider each of the following items, but will not give scores for these items, and should not consider them in providing an overall impact score.reviewers will assess whether the project presents special opportunities for furthering research programs through the use of unusual talent, resources, populations, or environmental conditions that exist in other countries and either are not readily available in the united states or augment existing u.s. resources.reviewers will assess the information provided in this section of the application, including 1) the select agent(s) to be used in the proposed research, 2) the registration status of all entities where select agent(s) will be used, 3) the procedures that will be used to monitor possession use and transfer of select agent(s), and 4) plans for appropriate biosafety, biocontainment, and security of the select agent(s).reviewers will comment on whether the following resource sharing plans, or the rationale for not sharing the following types of resources, are reasonable: (1) data sharing plan; (2) sharing model organisms; and (3) genomic data sharing plan (gds).for projects involving key biological and/or chemical resources, reviewers will comment on the brief plans proposed for identifying and ensuring the validity of those resources.reviewers will consider whether the budget and the requested period of support are fully justified and reasonable in relation to the proposed research.peer reviewers will separately evaluate the recruitment plan (when applicable) to enhance diversity after the overall score has been determined. reviewers will examine the strategies to be used to recruit a diverse pool of potential candidates that includes individuals from underrepresented groups. the overall plan will be rated as acceptable only if the recruitment strategies for all of the relevant groups identified in the notice of nih's interest in diversity are viewed by the review panel as acceptable, otherwise the plan will be rated as unacceptable. the consensus of the review committee will be included in an administrative note in the summary statement.2. review and selection processapplications will be evaluated for scientific and technical merit by (an) appropriate scientific review group(s) convened by center for scientific review, in accordance with nih peer review policy and procedures, using the stated review criteria. assignment to a scientific review group will be shown in the era commons.as part of the scientific peer review, all applications will receive a written critique.applications may undergo a selection process in which only those applications deemed to have the highest scientific and technical merit (generally the top half of applications under review) will be discussed and assigned an overall impact score.3. anticipated announcement and award datesafter the peer review of the application is completed, the pd/pi will be able to access his or her summary statement (written critique) via the era commons. refer to part 1 for dates for peer review, advisory council review, and earliest start date.information regarding the disposition of applications is available in the nih grants policy statement.1. award noticesif the application is under consideration for funding, nih will request "just-in-time" information from the applicant as described in the nih grants policy statement.a formal notification in the form of a notice of award (noa) will be provided to the applicant organization for successful applications. the noa signed by the grants management officer is the authorizing document and will be sent via email to the recipient's business official.recipients must comply with any funding restrictions described in section iv.6. funding restrictions. selection of an application for award is not an authorization to begin performance. any costs incurred before receipt of the noa are at the recipient's risk. these costs may be reimbursed only to the extent considered allowable pre-award costs.any application awarded in response to this foa will be subject to terms and conditions found on the award conditions and information for nih grants website. this includes any recent legislation and policy applicable to awards that is highlighted on this website.individual awards are based on the application submitted to, and as approved by, the nih and are subject to the ic-specific terms and conditions identified in the noa.clinicaltrials.gov: if an award provides for one or more clinical trials. by law (title viii, section 801 of public law 110-85), the "responsible party" must register and submit results information for certain “applicable clinical trials” on the clinicaltrials.gov protocol registration and results system information website (https://register.clinicaltrials.gov). nih expects registration and results reporting of all trials whether required under the law or not. for more information, see https://grants.nih.gov/policy/clinical-trials/reporting/index.htminstitutional review board or independent ethics committee approval: recipient institutions must ensure that all protocols are reviewed by their irb or iec. to help ensure the safety of participants enrolled in nih-funded studies, the recipient must provide nih copies of documents related to all major changes in the status of ongoing protocols.data and safety monitoring requirements: the nih policy for data and safety monitoring requires oversight and monitoring of all nih-conducted or -supported human biomedical and behavioral intervention studies (clinical trials) to ensure the safety of participants and the validity and integrity of the data. further information concerning these requirements is found at http://grants.nih.gov/grants/policy/hs/data_safety.htm and in the application instructions (sf424 (r&r) and phs 398).investigational new drug or investigational device exemption requirements: consistent with federal regulations, clinical research projects involving the use of investigational therapeutics, vaccines, or other medical interventions (including licensed products and devices for a purpose other than that for which they were licensed) in humans under a research protocol must be performed under a food and drug administration (fda) investigational new drug (ind) or investigational device exemption (ide).2. administrative and national policy requirementsall nih grant and cooperative agreement awards include the nih grants policy statement as part of the noa. for these terms of award, see the nih grants policy statement part ii: terms and conditions of nih grant awards, subpart a: general and part ii: terms and conditions of nih grant awards, subpart b: terms and conditions for specific types of grants, recipients, and activities, including of note, but not limited to:if a recipient is successful and receives a notice of award, in accepting the award, the recipient agrees that any activities under the award are subject to all provisions currently in effect or implemented during the period of the award, other department regulations and policies in effect at the time of the award, and applicable statutory provisions.should the applicant organization successfully compete for an award, recipients of federal financial assistance (ffa) from hhs must administer their programs in compliance with federal civil rights laws that prohibit discrimination on the basis of race, color, national origin, disability, age and, in some circumstances, religion, conscience, and sex (including gender identify, sexual orientation, and pregnancy). this includes ensuring programs are accessible to persons with limited english proficiency and persons with disabilities. the hhs office for civil rights provides guidance on complying with civil rights laws enforced by hhs. please see https://www.hhs.gov/civil-rights/for-providers/provider-obligations/index.html and https://www.hhs.gov/civil-rights/for-individuals/nondiscrimination/index.htmlhhs recognizes that research projects are often limited in scope for many reasons that are nondiscriminatory, such as the principal investigator’s scientific interest, funding limitations, recruitment requirements, and other considerations. thus, criteria in research protocols that target or exclude certain populations are warranted where nondiscriminatory justifications establish that such criteria are appropriate with respect to the health or safety of the subjects, the scientific study design, or the purpose of the research. for additional guidance regarding how the provisions apply to nih grant programs, please contact the scientific/research contact that is identified in section vii under agency contacts of this foa.please contact the hhs office for civil rights for more information about obligations and prohibitions under federal civil rights laws at https://www.hhs.gov/ocr/about-us/contact-us/index.html or call 1-800-368-1019 or tdd 1-800-537-7697.in accordance with the statutory provisions contained in section 872 of the duncan hunter national defense authorization act of fiscal year 2009 (public law 110-417), nih awards will be subject to the federal awardee performance and integrity information system (fapiis) requirements. fapiis requires federal award making officials to review and consider information about an applicant in the designated integrity and performance system (currently fapiis) prior to making an award. an applicant, at its option, may review information in the designated integrity and performance systems accessible through fapiis and comment on any information about itself that a federal agency previously entered and is currently in fapiis. the federal awarding agency will consider any comments by the applicant, in addition to other information in fapiis, in making a judgement about the applicant’s integrity, business ethics, and record of performance under federal awards when completing the review of risk posed by applicants as described in 45 cfr part 75.205 and 2 cfr part 200.206 “federal awarding agency review of risk posed by applicants.” this provision will apply to all nih grants and cooperative agreements except fellowships.not applicabledata management and sharingnote: the nih policy for data management and sharing is effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023.consistent with the nih policy for data management and sharing, when data management and sharing is applicable to the award, recipients will be required to adhere to the data management and sharing requirements as outlined in the nih grants policy statement. upon the approval of a data management and sharing plan, it is required for recipients to implement the plan as described.3. reportingwhen multiple years are involved, recipients will be required to submit the research performance progress report (rppr) annually and financial statements as required in the nih grants policy statement.a final rppr, invention statement, and the expenditure data portion of the federal financial report are required for closeout of an award, as described in the nih grants policy statement. nih foas outline intended research goals and objectives. post award, nih will review and measure performance based on the details and outcomes that are shared within the rppr, as described at 45 cfr part 75.301 and 2 cfr part 200.301.the federal funding accountability and transparency act of 2006 (transparency act), includes a requirement for recipients of federal grants to report information about first-tier subawards and executive compensation under federal assistance awards issued in fy2011 or later. all recipients of applicable nih grants and cooperative agreements are required to report to the federal subaward reporting system (fsrs) available at www.fsrs.gov on all subawards over the threshold. see the nih grants policy statement for additional information on this reporting requirement.in accordance with the regulatory requirements provided at 45 cfr 75.113 and 2 cfr part 200.113 and appendix xii to 45 cfr part 75 and 2 cfr part 200, recipients that have currently active federal grants, cooperative agreements, and procurement contracts from all federal awarding agencies with a cumulative total value greater than $10,000,000 for any period of time during the period of performance of a federal award, must report and maintain the currency of information reported in the system for award management (sam) about civil, criminal, and administrative proceedings in connection with the award or performance of a federal award that reached final disposition within the most recent five-year period. the recipient must also make semiannual disclosures regarding such proceedings. proceedings information will be made publicly available in the designated integrity and performance system (currently fapiis). this is a statutory requirement under section 872 of public law 110-417, as amended (41 u.s.c. 2313). as required by section 3010 of public law 111-212, all information posted in the designated integrity and performance system on or after april 15, 2011, except past performance reviews required for federal procurement contracts, will be publicly available. full reporting requirements and procedures are found in appendix xii to 45 cfr part 75 and 2 cfr part 200 – award term and condition for recipient integrity and performance matters.we encourage inquiries concerning this funding opportunity and welcome the opportunity to answer questions from potential applicants.era service desk (questions regarding assist, era commons, application errors and warnings, documenting system problems that threaten submission by the due date, and post-submission issues)finding help online: http://grants.nih.gov/support/ (preferred method of contact) telephone: 301-402-7469 or 866-504-9552 (toll free)general grants information (questions regarding application instructions, application processes, and nih grant resources) email: grantsinfo@nih.gov (preferred method of contact) telephone: 301-637-3015grants.gov customer support (questions regarding grants.gov registration and workspace) contact center telephone: 800-518-4726 email: support@grants.govplease direct inquiries related to specific interests of the participating nih institutes and centers to the ic contacts listed on the include project website.charlene a schramm national heart, lung, and blood institute (nhlbi) phone: (301) 435-0510 e-mail: schrammc@mail.nih.govrobert riddle national institute of neurological disorders and stroke telephone: 301 496 5745 email: riddler@nih.govkelly anne king, au.d., ph.d. national institute on deafness and other communication disorders (nidcd) phone: 301-402-3458 e-mail: kingke@mail.nih.govhoumam h araj nei - national eye institute phone: (301) 435-8166 e-mail: ha50c@nih.govmalcolm smith, m.d., ph.d. national cancer institute (nci) telephone: 240-276-6560 email: smithm@ctep.nci.nih.govmelissa parisi, md, phd eunice kennedy shriver national institute of child health and human development (nichd) telephone: 301-435-6880 email: parisima@mail.nih.govmarie mancini, phd national institute of arthritis and musculoskeletal and skin diseases (niams) phone: 301-594-5032 e-mail: mancinim2@mail.nih.govnatalia komissarova, ph.d. center for scientific review telephone: 301-435-1206 email: komissar@mail.nih.govkelly fritz grants management branch eunice kennedy shriver national institute of child health and human development telephone: 301-827-5429 email: kelly.fritz@nih.govchief grants management officer national institute of neurological disorders and stroke (ninds) email: chiefgrantsmanagementofficer@ninds.nih.govchristopher myers national institute on deafness and other communication disorders (nidcd) phone: (301) 435-0713 e-mail: myersc@nidcd.nih.govkaren robinsonsmith nei - national eye institute phone: (301) 451-2020 e-mail: kyr@nei.nih.govcrystal wolfrey national cancer institute (nci) phone: (240) 276-6277 e-mail: wolfreyc@mail.nih.govkelly fritz eunice kennedy shriver national institute of child health and human development (nichd) telephone: 301-827-5429 email: kelly.fritz@nih.goverik edgerton national institute of arthritis and musculoskeletal and skin diseases (niams) phone: 301-594-7760 e-mail: erik.edgerton@nih.govrecently issued trans-nih policy notices may affect your application submission. a full list of policy notices published by nih is provided in the nih guide for grants and contracts. all awards are subject to the terms and conditions, cost principles, and other considerations described in the nih grants policy statement.awards are made under the authorization of sections 301 and 405 of the public health service act as amended (42 usc 241 and 284) and under federal regulations 42 cfr part 52 and 45 cfr part 75 and 2 cfr part 200.weekly toc for this announcement nih funding opportunities and noticesnote: for help accessing pdf, rtf, ms word, excel, powerpoint, audio or video files, see help downloading files.