Mentored Research Scientist Career Development Award in Tobacco Regulatory Research (K01 -  Independent Clinical Trial Required)
https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/rfa-files/RFA-OD-22-024.html
national institutes of health (nih)u.s. food and drug administration (fda)division of program coordination, planning and strategic initiatives, office of disease prevention (odp)all applications to this funding opportunity announcement must fall within the mission of the nih institutes/centers.national cancer institute (nci)national heart, lung, and blood institute (nhlbi)national institute on drug abuse (nida)u.s. food and drug administration, center for tobacco products (ctp)k01 research scientist development award - research & trainingnot-od-23-012 reminder: forms-h grant application forms and instructions must be used for due dates on or after january 25, 2023 - new grant application instructions now availablesee section iii. 3. additional information on eligibility.the purpose of the mentored research scientist career development award in tobacco regulatory research (k01) is to provide support and protected time (three, four, or five years) for an intensive, supervised career development experience in biomedical, behavioral, and social science research that will inform the development and evaluation of regulations on tobacco product manufacturing, distribution, and marketing and that will lead to research independence. research projects must address the research priorities related to the regulatory authority of the food and drug administration (fda) center for tobacco products (ctp) as mandated by the family smoking prevention and tobacco control act (fsptca), public law 111-31. the awards under this foa will be administered by nih using funds made available through the ctp and the fsptca (p.l. 111-31).this funding opportunity announcement (foa) is designed specifically for applicants proposing to serve as the lead investigator of an independent clinical trial, a clinical trial feasibility study, or a separate ancillary study to an existing trial, as part of their research and career development. applicants not planning an independent clinical trial, or proposing to gain research experience in a clinical trial led by another investigator, must apply to companion foa (rfa-od-22-023).60 days prior to the application due date. please note, although lois are typically due 30 days before the due date, for this foa lois are due 60 days prior to the application dateall applications are due by 5:00 pm local time of applicant organization.applications are encouraged to apply early to allow adequate time to make any corrections to errors found in the application during the submission process by the due date.not applicableit is critical that applicants follow the instructions in the career development (k) instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, except where instructed to do otherwise (in this foa or in a notice from the nih guide for grants and contracts). conformance to all requirements (both in the application guide and the foa) is required and strictly enforced. applicants must read and follow all application instructions in the application guide as well as any program-specific instructions noted in section iv. when the program-specific instructions deviate from those in the application guide, follow the program-specific instructions. applications that do not comply with these instructions may be delayed or not accepted for review.there are several options available to submit your application through grants.gov to nih and department of health and human services partners. you must use one of these submission options to access the application forms for this opportunity.the overall goal of the nih research career development program is to help ensure that a diverse pool of highly trained scientists is available in appropriate scientific disciplines to address the nation's biomedical, behavioral, and clinical research needs. nih institutes and centers (ics) support a variety of mentored and non-mentored career development award programs designed to foster the transition of new investigators to research independence and to support established investigators in achieving specific objectives. candidates should review the different career development (k) award programs to determine the best program to support their goals. more information about career programs may be found at the nih extramural training mechanisms website.the objective of the nih mentored research scientist development award (k01) is to provide salary and research support for a sustained period of “protected time” (3-5 years) for intensive research career development, under the guidance of an experienced mentor, or sponsor in the biomedical, behavioral or clinical sciences leading to research independence. the expectation is that, through this sustained period of research career development and training, recipients will launch independent research careers and become competitive for new research project grant (e.g., r01) funding.investigators who have the quality and breadth of training necessary to conduct cutting-edge research related to the regulation, manufacture, distribution and marketing of tobacco products are needed. all applicants responding to this foa are expected to propose research that responds to the priorities of the fda center for tobacco products as outlined in the program scope and research objectives.nih defines a clinical trial as "a research study in which one or more human subjects are prospectively assigned to one or more interventions (which may include placebo or other control) to evaluate the effects of those interventions on health-related biomedical or behavioral outcomes." (not-od-15-015). those not planning an independent clinical trial, or proposing to gain research experience in a clinical trial led by another investigator, must apply to companion foa (rfa-od-22-023).backgroundsince 2009, fda has regulated cigarettes, smokeless, and roll-your-own tobacco. fda finalized a rule, effective august 8, 2016, to regulate all tobacco products including electronic nicotine delivery systems or ends (e.g., vapes, vaporizers, vape pens, hookah pens, electronic cigarettes (e-cigarettes or e-cigs), and e-pipes), cigars, pipe tobacco, gels, hookah (waterpipe) tobacco, and future tobacco products. tobacco products are subject to provisions outlined in the fd&c act. fda also has the authority to develop tobacco product standards, when appropriate for the protection of public health.a full description of the fsptca can be found at: https://www.fda.gov/tobacco-products/rules-regulations-and-guidance/family-smoking-prevention-and-tobacco-control-act-table-contentsprogram scope and research objectivesthe fda and nih share interest in supporting research that could inform fda's tobacco regulatory authorities. to that end, the research encouraged by this foa is expected to provide additional scientific data to the research base to inform regulation of tobacco products to protect public health. although a vast and sound science base exists with regard to numerous areas related to the fsptca, new research will provide additional science for the fda to consider as it implements the fsptca.consistent with the fda ctp mission, this foa encourages research applications that address such scientific domains as: 1) understanding the composition and design of tobacco products, 2) approaches that test the toxicity of tobacco smoke, aerosol, or specific constituents, 3) the effect of tobacco product characteristics on addiction and abuse liability, 4) the short- and long-term health effects of tobacco products, 5) understanding the knowledge, attitudes, perceptions, and behaviors related to tobacco product use, 6) understanding how to effectively communicate the health effects of tobacco products use, 7) the influences of tobacco marketing, and 8) understanding the impact of potential fda regulatory actions.where appropriate to the research question, applications may focus on populations or groups that bear disproportionate burden of tobacco product risk and harm. if a population experiencing tobacco-related disparities will be included, applicants will be expected to identify the population and how the population is important to the research question, considering the impact on population health. populations can include (but are not limited to):youth and young adultsthose from lower socioeconomic backgrounds (e.g., those with lower household incomes or lower educational attainment)racial or ethnic minoritiessexual and/or gender minoritiesrural populationsthose pregnant or trying to become pregnantactive-duty military or veteransthose who are or have been incarceratedthose with mental health conditions or substance use disordersscientific domainsproduct composition and design– understanding the chemical constituents in tobacco products and the methods for measuring them across products with diverse characteristics*. priorities include:toxicity – understanding how tobacco products and changes to tobacco product characteristics* affect their potential to cause morbidity and mortality in users and nonusers through secondary exposure; including animal (in vivo) and cell culture (in vitro) models, as well as novel alternative toxicology approaches that test the toxicity of tobacco smoke (other than cigarette), aerosols, or specific constituents in tobacco and the tobacco product. priorities include:addiction – understanding the effect of tobacco product characteristics* on addiction and abuse liability across populations. priorities include:health effects – understanding the short- and long-term health effects of tobacco products (excluding conventional cigarettes) with priority on longitudinal data. areas of interest include cardiovascular, cancer, neurological (e.g., seizures), oral, reproductive, and respiratory health effects (including inflammation and lung disorders (e.g., asthma, copd). priorities include:behavior – understanding the knowledge, attitudes, perceptions, and behaviors related to tobacco product use and the impact of tobacco product characteristics* on behaviors across populations, as appropriate. priorities include:communications – understanding how to effectively communicate to the public regarding nicotine and the health effects of tobacco products through media campaigns and digital media. priorities include:marketing influences – understanding the impact of marketing on susceptibility to and initiation of using tobacco products (both classes of products and products within classes) and transitions between experimentation, initiation, regular use, product switching, dual use, and cessation-related behaviors among different populations. topics may include marketing such as advertising, digital media, and promotions. priorities include:impact analysis– understanding the potential or actual impact of fda regulatory actions. priorities include:*the term “characteristic” encompasses materials, ingredients (including additives, nicotine formulations, and flavors), design, composition, heating source, and other features of a tobacco product, including harmful and potentially harmful constituents. product characteristics can be incorporated into all the above topics.non-responsive researchalthough the following research topics may be within fda ctp’s regulatory authorities to fund, they are not to be included in the foa and will be deemed non-responsive:projects must propose research aims that are within the regulatory authority of fda ctp and the scientific interest areas identified in this foa in order to be considered responsive to this foa. as such, investigators are strongly encouraged to discuss whether their application is responsive to this foa with a scientific/research contact listed in section vii prior to submission of their application, and to review additional information available including research priorities, a frequently asked questions document and a k01 and k99/r00 mechanism fact sheet found at: https://prevention.nih.gov/tobacco-regulatory-research/funding-opportunities/webinar-career-development-awards-tobacco-regulatory-research-k01-and-k99r00.special considerationsapplicants should keep the following special considerations in mind as they prepare their applications:special notethe nih participating institutes invite k01 applications from candidates interested in pursuing careers in regulatory science as it relates to the regulation of tobacco products and the fda's authorities under the family smoking prevention and tobacco control act.pre-application webinar informationa pre-application webinar was held for the tobacco regulatory research: k01 and k99/r00 previously. prospective applicants are encouraged to visit the webinar website and the available resources found at:https://prevention.nih.gov/tobacco-regulatory-research/funding-opportunities/webinar-career-development-awards-tobacco-regulatory-research-k01-and-k99r00. note that the research priorities discussed during the webinar have been updated. please refer to the new and revised scientific interest areas/research priorities identified in this foa.travelthe nih will require awardees to travel to or participate remotely in the biennial tobacco regulatory science meeting in the washington d.c. area per year beginning in the first year and continuing through the last year of the award. the tobacco regulatory research and/or career development conference will be organized by nih and fda, with the timing of the conference at the discretion of the government. funds from the award must be used for this travel.note: this funding opportunity announcement (foa) is designed specifically for candidates proposing to serve as the lead investigator of an independent clinical trial, a clinical trial feasibility study, or a separate ancillary clinical trial, as part of their research and career development. those not planning an independent clinical trial, or proposing to gain research experience in a clinical trial led by another investigator, must apply to companion foa (rfa-od-22-023).investigators proposing nih-defined clinical trials may refer to the research methods resources website for information about developing statistical methods and study designs.see section viii. other information for award authorities and regulations.grant: a support mechanism providing money, property, or both to an eligible entity to carry out an approved project or activity.required: only accepting applications that propose an independent clinical trial(s).the awards under this foa will be administered by nih using designated funds from the fda ctp for tobacco regulatory science.the fda intends to commit $500,000 to support 3 awards total for both this foa (mentored research scientist career development award in tobacco regulatory research (k01 - independent clinical trial required) and the companion foa (mentored research scientist career development award in tobacco regulatory research (k01 - independent clinical trial not allowed). awards are contingent upon funds available from the fda and the submission of a sufficient number of meritorious applications.fda ctp will contribute up to $90,000 per year toward the salary plus applicable fringe of the career award recipient. further guidance on budgeting for career development salaries is provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide. see also not-od-17-094.the total nih contribution to salary may not exceed the legislatively mandated salary cap. see: http://grants.nih.gov/grants/policy/salcap_summary.htm.the sponsoring institution may supplement the fda salary contribution up to a level that is consistent with the institution's salary scale. however, supplementation may not be from federal funds unless specifically authorized by the federal program from which such funds are derived. in no case may hhs funds be used for salary supplementation. institutional supplementation of salary must not require extra duties or responsibilities that would interfere with the purpose of the career award.in addition, the candidate may derive additional compensation for effort associated with other federal sources or awards provided the total salary derived from all federal sources does not exceed the maximum legislated salary rate and the total percent effort does not exceed 100%.fda ctp will contribute $60,000 per year toward the research development costs of the award recipient, which must be justified and consistent with the stage of development of the candidate and the proportion of time to be spent in research or career development activities.research expenses may include (a) tuition and fees related to career development activities; (b) supplies, equipment, and technical personnel; c) travel to research and grantee meetings or training organized by the nih and fda on tobacco regulatory research. funds from the award must be used for this travel, and (d) statistical services, including personnel and computer time.salary for mentors, secretarial and administrative assistants, etc. is not allowed.1. eligible applicantshigher education institutionsthe following types of higher education institutions are always encouraged to apply for nih support as public or private institutions of higher education:nonprofits other than institutions of higher educationfor-profit organizationsgovernmentsothernon-domestic (non-u.s.) entities (foreign institutions) are not eligible to apply.non-domestic (non-u.s.) components of u.s. organizations are not eligible to apply.foreign components, as defined in the nih grants policy statement, are not allowed.applicant organizationsapplicant organizations must complete and maintain the following registrations as described in the sf 424 (r&r) application guide to be eligible to apply for or receive an award. all registrations must be completed prior to the application being submitted. registration can take 6 weeks or more, so applicants should begin the registration process as soon as possible. the nih policy on late submission of grant applications states that failure to complete registrations in advance of a due date is not a valid reason for a late submission.program directors/principal investigators (pd(s)/pi(s))all pd(s)/pi(s) must have an era commons account. pd(s)/pi(s) should work with their organizational officials to either create a new account or to affiliate their existing account with the applicant organization in era commons. if the pd/pi is also the organizational signing official, they must have two distinct era commons accounts, one for each role. obtaining an era commons account can take up to 2 weeks.all pd(s)/pi(s) must be registered with orcid. the personal profile associated with the pd(s)/pi(s) era commons account must be linked to a valid orcid id. for more information on linking an orcid id to an era commons personal profile see the orcid topic in our era commons online help.any candidate with the skills, knowledge, and resources necessary to carry out the proposed research as the program director/principal investigator (pd/pi) is invited to work with his/her mentor and organization to develop an application for support. individuals from underrepresented racial and ethnic groups, individuals with disabilities, and women are always encouraged to apply for nih support. see, reminder: notice of nih's encouragement of applications supporting individuals from underrepresented ethnic and racial groups as well as individuals with disabilities, not-od-22-019 . multiple pds/pis are not allowed.by the time of award, the individual must be a citizen or a non-citizen national of the united states or have been lawfully admitted for permanent residence (i.e., possess a currently valid permanent resident card uscis form i-551, or other legal verification of such status).current and former pds/pis on nih research project (r01), program project (p01), center grants (p50), project leads of program project (p01), or center grants (p50), other major individual career development awards (e.g., k01, k07, k08, k22, k23, k25, k76, k99/r00), or the equivalent are not eligible. current and former pds/pis of an nih small grant (r03), exploratory/developmental grants (r21/r33), planning grant (r34/u34), dissertation award (r36), or sbir/sttr (r41, r42, r43, r44) remain eligible, as do pd/pis of transition scholar (k38) awards and individuals appointed to institutional k programs (k12, kl2). candidates for the k01 award must have a research or health-professional doctoral degree.2. cost sharing3. additional information on eligibilityapplicant organizations may submit more than one application, provided that each application is scientifically distinct, and each is from a different candidate.the nih will not accept duplicate or highly overlapping applications under review at the same time per 2.3.7.4 submission of resubmission application. an individual may not have two or more competing nih career development applications pending review concurrently. in addition, nih will not accept:candidates may submit research project grant (rpg) applications concurrently with the k application. however, any concurrent rpg application may not have substantial scientific and/or budgetary overlap with the career award application. k award recipients are encouraged to obtain funding from nih or other federal sources either as a pd/pi on a competing research grant award or cooperative agreement, or as project leader on a competing multi-project award as described in not-od-08-065.at the time of award, the candidate must have a “full-time” appointment at the academic institution. candidates are required to commit a minimum of 75% of full-time professional effort (i.e., a minimum of 9 person-months) to their program of career development. candidates may engage in other duties as part of the remaining 25% of their full-time professional effort not covered by this award, as long as such duties do not interfere with or detract from the proposed career development program.candidates who have va appointments may not consider part of the va effort toward satisfying the full time requirement at the applicant institution. candidates with va appointments should contact the staff person in the relevant institute or center prior to preparing an application to discuss their eligibility.after the receipt of the award, adjustments to the required level of effort may be made in certain circumstances. see not-od-18-156 and nih grants policy statement, section 12.3.6.4 temporary adjustments to the percent effort requirement for more details.mentor(s)before submitting the application, the candidate must identify a mentor(s) who will supervise the proposed career development and research experience. candidates are encouraged to identify more than one mentor, i.e., a mentoring team, if this is deemed advantageous for providing expert advice in all aspects of the research career development program. in such cases, one individual must be identified as the primary mentor who will coordinate the candidate’s research. at least one member of the supervisory mentoring team must have expertise in the field of tobacco research as it relates to the regulation of tobacco products and fda's regulatory authorities. the mentor, or a member of the mentoring team, should have a successful track record of mentoring individuals at the candidate’s career stage. the candidate must work with the mentor(s) in preparing the application. the mentor should be an active investigator in the area of the proposed research and be committed both to the career development of the candidate and to the direct supervision of the candidate’s research. the mentor must document the availability of sufficient research support and facilities for high-quality research. where feasible, women, individuals from an underrepresented racial and ethnic groups, and individuals with disabilities should be involved as mentors to serve as role models.the mentor(s) or mentoring team must demonstrate appropriate expertise, experience, and ability to guide the applicant in the organization, management and implementation of the proposed research and clinical trial.the applicant institution must have a strong, well-established record of research and career development activities and faculty qualified to serve as mentors in biomedical, behavioral, or clinical research. the institution must demonstrate a commitment to the development of the candidate as a productive, independent investigator with research projects that address research priorities related to the regulatory authority of the food and drug administration (fda) center for tobacco products (ctp) as mandated by the family smoking prevention and tobacco control act (fsptca), public law 111-31. the institution must also be willing to allow the protected time needed by the candidate. the candidate, mentor(s), and institution must describe a research career development program that will maximize the use of this environment, including available facilities and resources.1. requesting an application packagebuttons to access the online assist system or to download application forms are available in part 1 of this foa. see your administrative office for instructions if you plan to use an institutional system-to-system solution.2. content and form of application submissionit is critical that applicants follow the career development (k) instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide except where instructed in this funding opportunity announcement to do otherwise. conformance to the requirements in the application guide is required and strictly enforced. applications that are out of compliance with these instructions may be delayed or not accepted for review.for information on application submission and receipt, visit frequently asked questions – application guide, electronic submission of grant applications.letter of intentalthough a letter of intent is not required, is not binding, and does not enter into the review of a subsequent application, the information that it contains allows ic staff to estimate the potential review workload and plan the review. by the date listed in part 1. overview information, prospective applicants are asked to submit a letter of intent that includes the following information:the letter of intent should be emailed to:tobacco regulatory science programoffice of disease preventionemail: trsp@nih.govpage limitationsall page limitations described in the sf424 application guide and the table of page limits must be followed.instructions for application submissionnote: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023, the data management and sharing (dms) plan will be attached in the other plan(s) attachment in forms-h and subsequent application forms packages. for due dates on or before january 24, 2023, the data sharing plan and genomic data sharing plan gds) will continue to be attached in the resource sharing plan attachment in forms-g application forms packages.the following section supplements the instructions found in the sf424 (r&r) application guide and should be used for preparing an application to this foa.sf424(r&r) coverall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.sf424(r&r) project/performance site locationsall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.other project informationall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.sf424(r&r) senior/key person profile expandedall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.r&r budgetall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.phs 398 cover page supplementall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.phs 398 career development award supplemental formother plan(s):note: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023, the data management and sharing plan will be attached in the other plan(s) attachment in forms-h and subsequent application forms packages. for due dates on or before january 24, 2023, the data sharing plan and genomic data sharing plan gds) will continue to be attached in the resource sharing plan attachment in forms-g application forms packages.all applicants planning research (funded or conducted in whole or in part by nih) that results in the generation of scientific data are required to comply with the instructions for the data management and sharing plan. all applications, regardless of the amount of direct costs requested for any one year, must address a data management and sharing plan.the phs 398 career development award supplemental form is comprised of the following sections:candidate research plan other candidate information mentor, co-mentor, consultant, collaborator environment & institutional commitment to the candidate other research plan sections appendixall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.candidate sectioncandidate sectionall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed, with the following additional instructions:candidate information and goals for career developmentcandidate’s backgroundcareer goals and objectives?candidate’s plan for career development/training activities during award periodresearch plan sectionall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed, with the following additional instructions:research strategytraining in the responsible conduct of researchmentor, co-mentor, consultant, collaborators sectionall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed, with the following additional instructions:plans and statements of mentor and co-mentor(s)letters of support from collaborators, contributors and consultantsenvironmental and institutional commitment to the candidateall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed, with the following additional instructions:description of institutional environmentinstitutional commitment to the candidate’s research career developmentresource sharing planindividuals are required to comply with the instructions for the resource sharing plans as provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide. the research findings generated from this foa may be used to provide scientific evidence informing the regulation of the manufacture, distribution, and marketing of tobacco products to protect public health. if the research data are cited publicly in support of regulation, institutions of higher education, hospitals, and other non-profit organizations are subject to the freedom of information act (foia) as outlined in 2 cfr 200 (http://gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/cfr-2015-title2-vol1/pdf/cfr-2015-title2-vol1-part200.pdf) and section 2.3.11.2.2 of the nih grants policy statement.all applications, regardless of the amount of direct costs requested for any one year, should address a data sharing plan.appendix:limited items are allowed in the appendix. follow all instructions for the appendix as described in the sf424 (r&r) application guide; any instructions provided here are in addition to the sf424 (r&r) application guide instructions.phs human subjects and clinical trials informationwhen involving nih-defined human subjects research, clinical research, and/or clinical trials (and when applicable, clinical trials research experience) follow all instructions for the phs human subjects and clinical trials information form in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, with the following additional instructions:if you answered “yes” to the question “are human subjects involved?” on the r&r other project information form, you must include at least one human subjects study record using the study record: phs human subjects and clinical trials information form or delayed onset study record.study record: phs human subjects and clinical trials informationall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.delayed onset studynote: delayed onset does not apply to a study that can be described but will not start immediately (i.e., delayed start).all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.phs assignment request formall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.reference letterscandidates must carefully follow the sf424 (r&r) application guide, including the time period for when reference letters will be accepted. applications lacking the appropriate required reference letters will not be reviewed. this is a separate process from submitting an application electronically. reference letters are submitted directly through the era commons submit referee information link and not through grants.gov.3. unique entity identifier and system for award management (sam)see part 1. section iii.1 for information regarding the requirement for obtaining a unique entity identifier and for completing and maintaining active registrations in system for award management (sam), nato commercial and government entity (ncage) code (if applicable), era commons, and grants.gov4. submission dates and timespart i. overview information contains information about key dates and times. applicants are encouraged to submit applications before the due date to ensure they have time to make any application corrections that might be necessary for successful submission. when a submission date falls on a weekend or federal holiday, the application deadline is automatically extended to the next business day.organizations must submit applications to grants.gov (the online portal to find and apply for grants across all federal agencies) using assist or other electronic submission systems. applicants must then complete the submission process by tracking the status of the application in the era commons, nih’s electronic system for grants administration. nih and grants.gov systems check the application against many of the application instructions upon submission. errors must be corrected and a changed/corrected application must be submitted to grants.gov on or before the application due date and time. if a changed/corrected application is submitted after the deadline, the application will be considered late. applications that miss the due date and time are subjected to the nih policy on late application submission.applicants are responsible for viewing their application before the due date in the era commons to ensure accurate and successful submission.information on the submission process and a definition of on-time submission are provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.5. intergovernmental review (e.o. 12372)this initiative is not subject to intergovernmental review.6. funding restrictionsall nih awards are subject to the terms and conditions, cost principles, and other considerations described in the nih grants policy statement.pre-award costs are allowable only as described in the nih grants policy statement.awards funded under this foa are not subject to snap authorities and do not have authority for the carryover of unobligated balances from budget period to any subsequent budget period without prior written approval from nih. special reporting requirements also apply, as described in section vi.3. reporting7. other submission requirements and informationapplications must be submitted electronically following the instructions described in the sf424 (r&r) application guide. paper applications will not be accepted.applicants must complete all required registrations before the application due date. section iii. eligibility information contains information about registration.for assistance with your electronic application or for more information on the electronic submission process, visit how to apply – application guide. if you encounter a system issue beyond your control that threatens your ability to complete the submission process on-time, you must follow the dealing with system issues guidance. for assistance with application submission, contact the application submission contacts in section vii.important reminders:all pd(s)/pi(s) must include their era commons id in the credential field of the senior/key person profile form. failure to register in the commons and to include a valid pd/pi commons id in the credential field will prevent the successful submission of an electronic application to nih. see section iii of this foa for information on registration requirements.the applicant organization must ensure that the unique entity identifier provided on the application is the same identifier used in the organization’s profile in the era commons and for the system for award management. additional information may be found in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.see more tips for avoiding common errors.upon receipt, applications will be evaluated for completeness and compliance with application instructions by the center for scientific review and responsiveness by fda and components of participating organizations, nih. applications that are incomplete, non-compliant and/or nonresponsive to the scientific interest areas identified in this foa, and/or proposing work outside fda-ctp's regulatory authority will not be reviewed.in order to expedite review, applicants are requested to notify the tobacco regulatory science program by email at: trsp@mail.nih.gov when the application has been submitted. please include the foa number and title, pd/pi name, and title of the applicationpost submission materialsapplicants are required to follow the instructions for post-submission materials, as described in the policy. any instructions provided here are in addition to the instructions in the policy.1. criterianote: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023, the data sharing plan and genomic data sharing plan (gds) as part of the resource sharing plan will not be evaluated at time of review.only the review criteria described below will be considered in the review process. applications submitted to the nih in support of the nih mission are evaluated for scientific and technical merit through the nih peer review system.for this particular announcement, note the following: reviewers should evaluate the candidate’s potential for developing an independent tobacco regulatory science research program that will make important contributions to the field, taking into consideration the years of research experience and the likely value of the proposed research career development as a vehicle for developing a successful, independent research program.overall impactreviewers should provide their assessment of the likelihood that the proposed career development and research plan will enhance the candidate’s potential for a productive, independent scientific research career in a health-related field, taking into consideration the criteria below in determining the overall impact score.reviewers will consider each of the review criteria below in the determination of scientific merit, and give a separate score for each. an application does not need to be strong in all categories to be judged likely to have major scientific impact.the reviewers will consider that the clinical trial may include study design, methods, and intervention that are not by themselves innovative, but address important questions or unmet needs. reviewers should also consider the scope of the clinical trial relative to the available resources, including the possibility that research support provided through career development awards may be sufficient to support only small feasibility studies.candidatecareer development plan/career goals and objectives/plan to provide mentoringresearch planmentor(s), co-mentor(s), consultant(s), collaborator(s)environment & institutional commitment to the candidatestudy timeline for clinical trialsis the study timeline described in detail, taking into account start-up activities, the anticipated rate of enrollment, and planned follow-up assessment? is the projected timeline feasible and well justified? does the project incorporate efficiencies and utilize existing resources (e.g., ctsas, practice-based research networks, electronic medical records, administrative database, or patient registries) to increase the efficiency of participant enrollment and data collection, as appropriate?are potential challenges and corresponding solutions discussed (e.g., strategies that can be implemented in the event of enrollment shortfalls)?protections for human subjectsfor research that involves human subjects but does not involve one of the categories of research that are exempt under 45 cfr part 46, the committee will evaluate the justification for involvement of human subjects and the proposed protections from research risk relating to their participation according to the following five review criteria: 1) risk to subjects, 2) adequacy of protection against risks, 3) potential benefits to the subjects and others, 4) importance of the knowledge to be gained, and 5) data and safety monitoring for clinical trials.for research that involves human subjects and meets the criteria for one or more of the categories of research that are exempt under 45 cfr part 46, the committee will evaluate: 1) the justification for the exemption, 2) human subjects involvement and characteristics, and 3) sources of materials. for additional information on review of the human subjects section, please refer to the guidelines for the review of human subjects.inclusion of women, minorities, and individuals across the lifespanwhen the proposed project involves human subjects and/or nih-defined clinical research, the committee will evaluate the proposed plans for the inclusion (or exclusion) of individuals on the basis of sex/gender, race, and ethnicity, as well as the inclusion (or exclusion) of individuals of all ages (including children and older adults) to determine if it is justified in terms of the scientific goals and research strategy proposed. for additional information on review of the inclusion section, please refer to the guidelines for the review of inclusion in clinical research.vertebrate animalsthe committee will evaluate the involvement of live vertebrate animals as part of the scientific assessment according to the following criteria: (1) description of proposed procedures involving animals, including species, strains, ages, sex, and total number to be used; (2) justifications for the use of animals versus alternative models and for the appropriateness of the species proposed; (3) interventions to minimize discomfort, distress, pain and injury; and (4) justification for euthanasia method if not consistent with the avma guidelines for the euthanasia of animals. reviewers will assess the use of chimpanzees as they would any other application proposing the use of vertebrate animals. for additional information on review of the vertebrate animals section, please refer to the worksheet for review of the vertebrate animal section.biohazardsreviewers will assess whether materials or procedures proposed are potentially hazardous to research personnel and/or the environment, and if needed, determine whether adequate protection is proposed.resubmissionsfor resubmissions, the committee will evaluate the application as now presented, taking into consideration the responses to comments from the previous scientific review group and changes made to the project.revisionsnot applicable.note: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023, the data sharing plan and genomic data sharing plan (gds) as part of the resource sharing plan will not be evaluated at time of review.as applicable for the project proposed, reviewers will consider each of the following items, but will not give scores for these items, and should not consider them in providing an overall impact score.resource sharing plansreviewers will comment on whether the following resource sharing plans, or the rationale for not sharing the following types of resources, are reasonable: (1) data sharing plan; (2) sharing model organisms; and (3) genomic data sharing plan (gds).training in the responsible conduct of researchall applications for support under this foa must include a plan to fulfill nih requirements for instruction in the responsible conduct of research (rcr). taking into account the level of experience of the candidate, including any prior instruction or participation in rcr as appropriate for the candidate’s career stage, the reviewers will evaluate the adequacy of the proposed rcr training in relation to the following five required components: 1) format - the required format of instruction, i.e., face-to-face lectures, coursework, and/or real-time discussion groups (a plan with only on-line instruction is not acceptable); 2) subject matter - the breadth of subject matter, e.g., conflict of interest, authorship, data management, human subjects and animal use, laboratory safety, research misconduct, research ethics; 3) faculty participation - the role of the mentor(s) and other faculty involvement in the fellow’s instruction; 4) duration of instruction - the number of contact hours of instruction (at least eight contact hours are required); and 5) frequency of instruction –instruction must occur during each career stage and at least once every four years. plans and past record will be rated as acceptable or unacceptable, and the summary statement will provide the consensus of the review committee. see also: not-od-10-019.select agent researchreviewers will assess the information provided in this section of the application, including 1) the select agent(s) to be used in the proposed research, 2) the registration status of all entities where select agent(s) will be used, 3) the procedures that will be used to monitor possession use and transfer of select agent(s), and 4) plans for appropriate biosafety, biocontainment, and security of the select agent(s).authentication of key biological and/or chemical resources:for projects involving key biological and/or chemical resources, reviewers will comment on the brief plans proposed for identifying and ensuring the validity of those resources.budget and period of supportreviewers will consider whether the budget and the requested period of support are fully justified and reasonable in relation to the proposed research.2. review and selection processapplications will be evaluated for scientific and technical merit by (an) appropriate scientific review group(s), convened by the center for scientific review in accordance with nih peer review policy and procedures, using the stated review criteria. assignment to a scientific review group will be shown in the era commons.as part of the scientific peer review, all applications:appeals for initial peer review will not be accepted for applications submitted in response to this foa.applications will be assigned on the basis of established phs referral guidelines to the appropriate nih institute or center. applications will compete for available funds with all other recommended applications submitted in response to this foa. following initial peer review, recommended applications will receive a second level of review by the appropriate national advisory council or board.3. anticipated announcement and award datesafter the peer review of the application is completed, the pd/pi will be able to access his or her summary statement (written critique) via the era commons. refer to part 1 for dates for peer review, advisory council review, and earliest start date.information regarding the disposition of applications is available in the nih grants policy statement.1. award noticesif the application is under consideration for funding, nih will request "just-in-time" information from the applicant as described in the nih grants policy statement.a formal notification in the form of a notice of award (noa) will be provided to the applicant organization for successful applications. the noa signed by the grants management officer is the authorizing document and will be sent via email to the recipient’s business official.recipients must comply with any funding restrictions described in section iv.5. funding restrictions. selection of an application for award is not an authorization to begin performance. any costs incurred before receipt of the noa are at the recipient's risk. these costs may be reimbursed only to the extent considered allowable pre-award costs.any application awarded in response to this foa will be subject to terms and conditions found on the award conditions and information for nih grants website. this includes any recent legislation and policy applicable to awards that is highlighted on this website.individual awards are based on the application submitted to, and as approved by, the nih and are subject to the ic-specific terms and conditions identified in the noa.clinicaltrials.gov: if an award provides for one or more clinical trials. by law (title viii, section 801 of public law 110-85), the "responsible party" must register and submit results information for certain “applicable clinical trials” on the clinicaltrials.gov protocol registration and results system information website (https://register.clinicaltrials.gov). nih expects registration and results reporting of all trials whether required under the law or not. for more information, see https://grants.nih.gov/policy/clinical-trials/reporting/index.htminstitutional review board or independent ethics committee approval: recipient institutions must ensure that all protocols are reviewed by their irb or iec. to help ensure the safety of participants enrolled in nih-funded studies, the recipient must provide nih copies of documents related to all major changes in the status of ongoing protocols.data and safety monitoring requirements: the nih policy for data and safety monitoring requires oversight and monitoring of all nih-conducted or -supported human biomedical and behavioral intervention studies (clinical trials) to ensure the safety of participants and the validity and integrity of the data. further information concerning these requirements is found at http://grants.nih.gov/grants/policy/hs/data_safety.htm and in the application instructions (sf424 (r&r) and phs 398).investigational new drug or investigational device exemption requirements: consistent with federal regulations, clinical research projects involving the use of investigational therapeutics, vaccines, or other medical interventions (including licensed products and devices for a purpose other than that for which they were licensed) in humans under a research protocol must be performed under a food and drug administration (fda) investigational new drug (ind) or investigational device exemption (ide).milestones: future support of a study funded under this foa is contingent upon adequate participant recruitment based on projected milestones.investigational tobacco products: currently there are no federal regulations regarding clinical research involving the use of investigational tobacco products. the draft guidance on use of investigational tobacco products describes the agency’s current thinking regarding the definition of investigational tobacco product and the kinds of information fda intends to consider in making enforcement decisions regarding the use of investigational tobacco products until regulations are issued and become effective. in addition, fda has provided information regarding research to be conducted using newly deemed tobacco products in the guidance for industry investigational use of deemed finished tobacco products that were on the u.s. market on august 8, 2016, during the deeming compliance periods.2. administrative and national policy requirementsall nih grant and cooperative agreement awards include the nih grants policy statement as part of the noa. for these terms of award, see the nih grants policy statement part ii: terms and conditions of nih grant awards, subpart a: general and part ii: terms and conditions of nih grant awards, subpart b: terms and conditions for specific types of grants, recipients, and activities, including of note, but not limited to:if a recipient is successful and receives a notice of award, in accepting the award, the recipient agrees that any activities under the award are subject to all provisions currently in effect or implemented during the period of the award, other department regulations and policies in effect at the time of the award, and applicable statutory provisions.should the applicant organization successfully compete for an award, recipients of federal financial assistance (ffa) from hhs must administer their programs in compliance with federal civil rights laws that prohibit discrimination on the basis of race, color, national origin, disability, age and, in some circumstances, religion, conscience, and sex (including gender identify, sexual orientation, and pregnancy). this includes ensuring programs are accessible to persons with limited english proficiency and persons with disabilities. the hhs office for civil rights provides guidance on complying with civil rights laws enforced by hhs. please see https://www.hhs.gov/civil-rights/for-providers/provider-obligations/index.html https://www.hhs.gov/civil-rights/for-individuals/nondiscrimination/index.htmlhhs recognizes that research projects are often limited in scope for many reasons that are nondiscriminatory, such as the principal investigator’s scientific interest, funding limitations, recruitment requirements, and other considerations. thus, criteria in research protocols that target or exclude certain populations are warranted where nondiscriminatory justifications establish that such criteria are appropriate with respect to the health or safety of the subjects, the scientific study design, or the purpose of the research. for additional guidance regarding how the provisions apply to nih grant programs, please contact the scientific/research contact that is identified in section vii under agency contacts of this foa.recipients of ffa must ensure that their programs are accessible to persons with limited english proficiency. for guidance on meeting the legal obligation to take reasonable steps to ensure meaningful access to programs or activities by limited english proficient individuals see https://www.hhs.gov/civil-rights/for-individuals/special-topics/limited-english-proficiency/fact-sheet-guidance/index.htmlandhttps://www.lep.gov.please contact the hhs office for civil rights for more information about obligations and prohibitions under federal civil rights laws at https://www.hhs.gov/ocr/about-us/contact-us/index.html or call 1-800-368-1019 or tdd 1-800-537-7697.in accordance with the statutory provisions contained in section 872 of the duncan hunter national defense authorization act of fiscal year 2009 (public law 110-417), nih awards will be subject to the federal awardee performance and integrity information system (fapiis) requirements. fapiis requires federal award making officials to review and consider information about an applicant in the designated integrity and performance system (currently fapiis) prior to making an award. an applicant, at its option, may review information in the designated integrity and performance systems accessible through fapiis and comment on any information about itself that a federal agency previously entered and is currently in fapiis. the federal awarding agency will consider any comments by the applicant, in addition to other information in fapiis, in making a judgement about the applicant’s integrity, business ethics, and record of performance under federal awards when completing the review of risk posed by applicants as described in 45 cfr part 75.205 and 2 cfr part 200.206 “federal awarding agency review of risk posed by applicants.” this provision will apply to all nih grants and cooperative agreements except fellowships.data management and sharingnote: the nih policy for data management and sharing is effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023.consistent with the nih policy for data management and sharing, when data management and sharing is applicable to the award, recipients will be required to adhere to the data management and sharing requirements as outlined in the nih grants policy statement. upon the approval of a data management and sharing plan, it is required for recipients to implement the plan as described.3. reportingwhen multiple years are involved, recipients will be required to submit the research performance progress report (rppr) annually and financial statements as required in the nih grants policy statement. the supplemental instructions for individual career development (k) rpprs must be followed. for mentored awards, the mentor’s report must include an annual evaluation statement of the candidate’s progress.a mid-period progress report (mppr) will be due every six (6) months following the project start date, as well as the annual progress report. electronic copies should be sent to the grants management specialist listed on the notice of grant award. the scientific summary should be a maximum of two (2) pagesa final rppr, invention statement, and the expenditure data portion of the federal financial report are required for closeout of an award, as described in the nih grants policy statement.the federal funding accountability and transparency act of 2006 (transparency act), includes a requirement for recipients of federal grants to report information about first-tier subawards and executive compensation under federal assistance awards issued in fy2011 or later. all recipients of applicable nih grants and cooperative agreements are required to report to the federal subaward reporting system (fsrs) available at www.fsrs.gov on all subawards over the threshold. see the nih grants policy statement for additional information on this reporting requirement.in accordance with the regulatory requirements provided at 45 cfr 75.113 and 2 cfr part 200.113 and appendix xii to 45 cfr part 75 and 2 cfr part 200, recipients that have currently active federal grants, cooperative agreements, and procurement contracts from all federal awarding agencies with a cumulative total value greater than $10,000,000 for any period of time during the period of performance of a federal award, must report and maintain the currency of information reported in the system for award management (sam) about civil, criminal, and administrative proceedings in connection with the award or performance of a federal award that reached final disposition within the most recent five-year period. the recipient must also make semiannual disclosures regarding such proceedings. proceedings information will be made publicly available in the designated integrity and performance system (currently fapiis). this is a statutory requirement under section 872 of public law 110-417, as amended (41 u.s.c. 2313). as required by section 3010 of public law 111-212, all information posted in the designated integrity and performance system on or after april 15, 2011, except past performance reviews required for federal procurement contracts, will be publicly available. full reporting requirements and procedures are found in appendix xii to 45 cfr part 75 and 2 cfr part 200 – award term and condition for recipient integrity and performance matters.4. evaluationin carrying out its stewardship of human resource-related programs, the nih may request information essential to an assessment of the effectiveness of this program from databases and from participants themselves. participants may be contacted after the completion of this award for periodic updates on various aspects of their employment history, publications, support from research grants or contracts, honors and awards, professional activities, and other information helpful in evaluating the impact of the program.we encourage inquiries concerning this funding opportunity and welcome the opportunity to answer questions from potential applicants.era service desk (questions regarding assist, era commons, application errors and warnings, documenting system problems that threaten on-time submission, and post-submission issues)finding help online: http://grants.nih.gov/support/ (preferred method of contact) telephone: 301-402-7469 or 866-504-9552 (toll free)general grants information (questions regarding application processes and nih grant resources) email: grantsinfo@nih.gov (preferred method of contact) telephone: 301-945-7573grants.gov customer support (questions regarding grants.gov registration and workspace) contact center telephone: 800-518-4726 email: support@grants.govnci contact for matters concerning the k01 mechanismsergey radaev, phd national cancer institute (nci) telephone: 240-276-5630 email: sergey.radaev@nih.govnci contact for scientific questionsrachel grana mayne, phd, mph national cancer institute (nci) telephone: 240-276-5899 email: rachel.mayne@nih.govnhlbi contact for matters concerning the k01 mechanismqing lu, dvm, phd national heart, lung, and blood institute (nhlbi) telephone: 301-480-9158 email: qing.lu@nih.govnhlbi contact for scientific questionslisa postow, phd national heart, lung, and blood institute (nhlbi) telephone: 301-877-7843 email: lisa.postow@nih.gov nida contact for matters concerning the k01 mechanism (or k99 mechanism, respectively)flair lindsey national institute on drug abuse (nida) telephone: 301-827-5783 email: nidatrsprogram@nida.nih.gov nida contact for scientific questionsmary kautz, phd national institute of drug abuse (nida) telephone: 301-443-3206 email: nidatrsprogram@nida.nih.govcenter for scientific review (csr)email: foareviewcontact@csr.nih.govcrystal wolfrey national cancer institute (nci)telephone: 240-276-6277 email: crystal.wolfrey@nih.govjudy sint national heart, lung, and blood institute (nhlbi) telephone: 301-480-1307 e-mail:judy.sint@nih.govamy bucheimer national institute on drug abuse (nida) phone: 301-827-6694 e-mail:amy.bucheimer@nih.govrecently issued trans-nih policy notices may affect your application submission. a full list of policy notices published by nih is provided in the nih guide for grants and contracts. all awards are subject to the terms and conditions, cost principles, and other considerations described in the nih grants policy statement.please note that the nih loan repayment programs (lrps) are a set of programs to attract and retain promising early-stage investigators in research careers by helping them to repay their student loans. recipients of career development awards are encouraged to consider applying for an extramural lrp award.awards are made under the authorization of sections 301 and 405 of the public health service act as amended (42 usc 241 and 284) and under federal regulations 42 cfr part 52 and 45 cfr part 75 and 2 cfr part 200.weekly toc for this announcement nih funding opportunities and noticesnote: for help accessing pdf, rtf, ms word, excel, powerpoint, audio or video files, see help downloading files.