BRAIN Initiative: Transformative Brain Non-invasive Imaging Technology Development (UG3/UH3 Clinical Trial Not Allowed)
https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/rfa-files/RFA-EB-22-003.html
national institutes of health (nih)national institute of biomedical imaging and bioengineering (nibib) national eye institute (nei) national institute on aging (nia) national institute on alcohol abuse and alcoholism (niaaa) eunice kennedy shriver national institute of child health and human development (nichd) national institute on deafness and other communication disorders (nidcd) national institute on drug abuse (nida) national institute of mental health (nimh) national institute of neurological disorders and stroke (ninds) national center for complementary and integrative health (nccih)national eye institute (nei)national institute on aging (nia)national institute on alcohol abuse and alcoholism (niaaa)eunice kennedy shriver national institute of child health and human development (nichd)national institute on deafness and other communication disorders (nidcd)national institute on drug abuse (nida)national institute of mental health (nimh)national institute of neurological disorders and stroke (ninds)national center for complementary and integrative health (nccih)ug3/uh3 exploratory/developmental phased award cooperative agreementnot-od-22-195 new nih "forms-h" grant application forms and instructions coming for due dates on or after january 25, 2023not-od-22-189 implementation details for the nih data management and sharing policynot-od-22-198 implementation changes for genomic data sharing plans included with applications due on or after january 25, 2023not-od-23-012 reminder: forms-h grant application forms & instructions must be used for due dates on or after january 25, 2023 - new grant application instructions now availablesee section iii. 3. additional information on eligibility.this funding opportunity announcement (foa) solicits applications for team-centric development and validation of innovative non-invasive imaging technologies that could have a transformative impact on the study of brain function/connectivity. applications are expected to turn a novel concept into a functional prototype using this phased grant mechanism. the feasibility should be established by the end of its first phase and serve as a foundation for the transition to its second phase. fully developing the technology into a functional prototype and validating it by in-vivo animal or human function/connectivity imaging are anticipated in the second phase. the research plan should provide a realistic timeline and tangible milestones to support the proposed development effort. awards will be integrated into the brain non-invasive imaging consortium, as a coordinated network on brain function/connectivity imaging.30 days prior to the application due dateall applications are due by 5:00 pm local time of applicant organization.applicants are encouraged to apply early to allow adequate time to make any corrections to errors found in the application during the submission process by the due date.not applicableit is critical that applicants follow the instructions in the research (r) instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, except where instructed to do otherwise (in this foa or in a notice from nih guide for grants and contracts).conformance to all requirements (both in the application guide and the foa) is required and strictly enforced. applicants must read and follow all application instructions in the application guide as well as any program-specific instructions noted in section iv. when the program-specific instructions deviate from those in the application guide, follow the program-specific instructions.applications that do not comply with these instructions may be delayed or not accepted for review.there are several options available to submit your application through grants.gov to nih and department of health and human services partners. you must use one of these submission options to access the application forms for this opportunity.backgroundsince 2014, the brain research through advancing innovative neurotechnologiesâ® (brain) initiative has aimed to accelerate the development and application of innovative neurotechnologies, enabling researchers to produce a new dynamic picture of the brain that reveals how individual cells and complex neural circuits interact in both time and space. it is expected that these advances will ultimately lead to new ways to treat and prevent brain disorders.as one of several federal agencies involved in the brain initiative, nih's contributions to the brain initiative programs were initially guided by "brain 2025: a scientific vision," a strategic plan that detailed seven high-priority research areas. this plan was updated and enhanced in 2019 by: "the brain initiative 2.0: from cells to circuits, toward cures" and "the brain initiative and neuroethics: enabling and enhancing neuroscience advances for society." this and other brain initiative funding opportunity announcements (foas) are based on this vision and issued with input from advisory councils of the 10 nih institutes and centers supporting the brain initiative, as assisted by the nih brain multi-council working group.the nih brain initiative recognizes that diverse teams working together and capitalizing on innovative ideas and distinct perspectives outperform homogeneous teams. there are many benefits that flow from a diverse scientific workforce, including: fostering scientific innovation, enhancing global competitiveness, contributing to robust learning environments, improving the quality of the research, advancing the likelihood that underserved populations participate in, and benefit from research, and enhancing public trust. see, notice of nih's interest in diversity (not-od-20-031).to support the best science, the nih brain initiative encourages inclusivity in research. examples of structures that promote diverse perspectives include but are not limited to:the nih also encourages businesses to participate in the brain initiative. it is possible for companies to submit applications directly to brain initiative program announcements or to collaborate with academic researchers in joint submissions. small businesses should consider applying to one of the brain initiative small business foas.the brain initiative requires a high level of coordination and sharing between investigators. it is expected that brain initiative awardees will cooperate and coordinate their activities after awards are made by participating in program director/principal investigator (pd/pi) meetings and in other activities such as the annual pi meeting. the data sharing expectations for brain initiative awards can be found at not-mh-19-010.this foa is related to the recommendations in the brain 2025 and the brain initiative 2.0: from cells to circuits, toward cures (priority area 2: maps at multiple scales, priority area 3: brain in action, and priority area 6: human neuroscience). specifically, it calls for innovative technologies for large?scale non-invasive monitoring of neural activity to produce a dynamic picture of the functioning brain, and to create and support integrated research networks. to further scope the concept, nih hosted in march 2021 the brain initiative transformative non-invasive imaging technologies workshop that brought together members of the scientific community and other stakeholders. links to videocast discussions can be found at https://videocast.nih.gov/watch=40182, https://videocast.nih.gov/watch=40183, and https://videocast.nih.gov/watch=40184. this foa reflects identified gaps and suggested opportunities of the workshop.this foa requires a plan for enhancing diverse perspectives (pedp) as part of the application (see further below). applicants are strongly encouraged to read the foa instructions carefully and view the available pedp guidance material.research objectivesas laid out in the brain 2025 and the brain initiative 2.0 report, understanding the dynamic picture of brain function requires information at multiple spatial/temporal scales or on multiple aspects. in response, this foa aims to support multi-disciplinary, team-centric efforts for non-conventional approaches that could have a transformative impact on bridging the gap between multiple scales. to help gauge community’s expectations on technology innovativeness, nih hosted in february 2021 the brain initiative dissemination of non-invasive imaging technologies workshop. links to videocast discussions are at https://videocast.nih.gov/watch=40173 and https://videocast.nih.gov/watch=40174. the ultimate impact of technology ingenuity should be on our ability to understand brain function/connectivity. this foa strongly encourages efforts that seek to cross the boundaries between different disciplines, different modalities, developers and users, and different research communities. to facilitate the collaboration between developer and users and between different neuroscience research communities, projects funded by this foa will be integrated into the brain initiative non-invasive imaging consortium, as a coordinated network for brain function/connectivity imaging.scopethis foa is especially interested in team-centric technology development efforts that explore novel directions and would bring substantial performance improvements to advance non-invsive imaging approaches in neuroscience research. activities responsive to this foa include but are not limited to:applications that include the following activities will be considered non-responsive and will be withdrawn without further review:phasesthis foa will support activities through a milestone driven, ug3/uh3 phased grant mechanism with maximum five years to stimulate innovation with reduced risks.ug3 phase:investigators are expected to successfully de-risk a technology before the embarkment of full-scale development. activities and efforts that may be supported include but are not limited to:uh3 phase:during this phase, investigators are expected to further develop a technology into a functional prototype with animal or human validation results. activities and efforts that may be supported include but are not limited to:ug3 to uh3 phase transition:an administrative review will be conducted by the project team to decide whether or not a ug3 project is to be transitioned into the uh3 phase based on the following criteria:milestonesapplications must propose quarterly or semi-annual milestones associated with each main objective. a milestone should specify, as a minimum, the rational, quantitatively measurable success criteria, and a backup plan to enable go/no-go decisions of the project. terminologies should be defined explicitly unless commonly understood. the timeline for each milestone should be clearly indicated in a gantt chart. applicants are encouraged to read examples of milestones before submission. prior to funding an application, nih program staff will contact the applicant to negotiate, incorporate any changes suggested, substantiate as needed, and finalize the milestones and timeline. the agreed upon and approved milestones and timeline will be incorporated in the notice of award (noa), and their achievements will be assessed periodically by nih project team. if justified, future milestones may be revised according to the circumstances. if a funded project does not meet the milestones, funding may be discontinued provided that the overall project status, program priorities, and availability of funds warrant.pre-application consultationapplicants are strongly encouraged to consult with nih program staff when planning an application, preferably well before the letter of intent due date. staff can advise whether the proposed project meets the goals of this foa and the mission of the brain initiative and discuss responsiveness questions. staff will not discuss the proposed approach and evaluate the technical innovation and scientific significance, which will be determined during peer review using the review criteria listed in this foa.plan for enhancing diverse perspectives (pedp)applications must include a plan for enhancing diverse perspectives (pedp) submitted as other project information as an attachment (see section iv). the pedp will be assessed as part of the scientific and technical peer review evaluation, as well as considered among programmatic matters with respect to funding decisions.see section viii. other information for award authorities and regulations.cooperative agreement: a support mechanism used when there will be substantial federal scientific or programmatic involvement. substantial involvement means that, after award, nih scientific or program staff will assist, guide, coordinate, or participate in project activities. see section vi.2 for additional information about the substantial involvement for this foa.the oer glossary and the sf424 (r&r) application guide provide details on these application types. only those application types listed here are allowed for this foa.not allowed: only accepting applications that do not propose clinical trials.need help determining whether you are doing a clinical trial?the brain initiative intends to commit $18m to fund an estimated up to 4 awards each fiscal year.application budgets are limited to $300,000 in direct costs excluding consortium f&a in any year for the ug3 phase.applications should rarely exceed $750,000 in direct costs excluding consortium f&a in any year for the uh3 phase.the proposed project period for the ug3 phase must not exceed 3 years. the proposed project period for the uh3 phase must not exceed 4 years. the total combined duration of the ug3 and uh3 must not exceed 5 years.nih grants policies as described in the nih grants policy statement will apply to the applications submitted and awards made from this foa.1. eligible applicantshigher education institutionsthe following types of higher education institutions are always encouraged to apply for nih support as public or private institutions of higher education:nonprofits other than institutions of higher educationfor-profit organizationslocal governmentsfederal governmentsothernon-domestic (non-u.s.) entities (foreign institutions) are eligible to apply.non-domestic (non-u.s.) components of u.s. organizations are eligible to apply.foreign components, as defined in the nih grants policy statement, are allowed.applicant organizationsapplicant organizations must complete and maintain the following registrations as described in the sf 424 (r&r) application guide to be eligible to apply for or receive an award. all registrations must be completed prior to the application being submitted. registration can take 6 weeks or more, so applicants should begin the registration process as soon as possible. the nih policy on late submission of grant applications states that failure to complete registrations in advance of a due date is not a valid reason for a late submission.program directors/principal investigators (pd(s)/pi(s))all pd(s)/pi(s) must have an era commons account. pd(s)/pi(s) should work with their organizational officials to either create a new account or to affiliate their existing account with the applicant organization in era commons. if the pd/pi is also the organizational signing official, they must have two distinct era commons accounts, one for each role. obtaining an era commons account can take up to 2 weeks.any individual(s) with the skills, knowledge, and resources necessary to carry out the proposed research as the program director(s)/principal investigator(s) (pd(s)/pi(s)) is invited to work with his/her organization to develop an application for support. individuals from diverse backgrounds, including underrepresented racial and ethnic groups, individuals with disabilities, and women are always encouraged to apply for nih support. see, reminder: notice of nih's encouragement of applications supporting individuals from underrepresented ethnic and racial groups as well as individuals with disabilities, not-od-22-019.for institutions/organizations proposing multiple pds/pis, visit the multiple program director/principal investigator policy and submission details in the senior/key person profile (expanded) component of the sf424 (r&r) application guide.2. cost sharingthis foa does not require cost sharing as defined in the nih grants policy statement.3. additional information on eligibilitynumber of applicationsapplicant organizations may submit more than one application, provided that each application is scientifically distinct.the nih will not accept duplicate or highly overlapping applications under review at the same time, per 2.3.7.4 submission of resubmission application. this means that the nih will not accept:1. requesting an application packagethe application forms package specific to this opportunity must be accessed through assist, grants.gov workspace or an institutional system-to-system solution. links to apply using assist or grants.gov workspace are available in part 1 of this foa. see your administrative office for instructions if you plan to use an institutional system-to-system solution.2. content and form of application submissionit is critical that applicants follow the instructions in the research (r) instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide except where instructed in this funding opportunity announcement to do otherwise. conformance to the requirements in the application guide is required and strictly enforced. applications that are out of compliance with these instructions may be delayed or not accepted for review.letter of intentalthough a letter of intent is not required, is not binding, and does not enter into the review of a subsequent application, the information that it contains allows ic staff to estimate the potential review workload and plan the review.by the date listed in part 1. overview information, prospective applicants are asked to submit a letter of intent that includes the following information:the letter of intent should be sent to:shumin wang, ph.d.national institute of biomedical imaging and bioengineering (nibib)telephone: 301-594-9001email: shumin.wang@nih.govpage limitationsall page limitations described in the sf424 application guide and the table of page limits must be followed.the following section supplements the instructions found in the sf424 (r&r) application guide and should be used for preparing an application to this foa.note: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023, the data management and sharing plan will be attached in the other plan(s) attachment in forms-h application forms packages.sf424(r&r) coverall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.sf424(r&r) project/performance site locationsall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.sf424(r&r) other project informationall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.other attachments:needs assessment (required – 1 page max):applications that exceed this limit or do not include this attachment will be withdrawn. this attachment should be entitled "needs assessment.pdf". applicants must specify the current state-of-the-art of related non-invasive imaging technology as a benchmark against which the proposed technology will be gauged, how the proposed is different from alternative approaches, and its competitive advantages. this document must also asses the critical needs and potential transformative impact of the proposed technology viewed from the neuroscience research perspective.milestones and timeline (required – 5 pages max):applications that exceed this limit or do not include this attachment will be withdrawn. this attachment should be entitled "milestones.pdf". applicants must include (abbreviated) milestones, as described in section i funding opportunity description, for each major objective. the milestones may be further adjusted or substantiated prior to funding an application. applicants must also include a project timeline in the form of a gantt chart (or similar) that clearly indicates the estimated start and completion date for each major objective.team management plan (required – 1 page max):applications that exceed this limit or do not include this attachment will be withdrawn. this attachment should be entitled "teammanagement.pdf". applicants must explain how team-centric research is going to be conducted. the research team must consist of both tool developer(s) and end user(s) of the proposed technology. applicants must describe the role of each key players and how they plan to interact with each other dynamically during the course of the proposed project.plan for enhancing diverse perspectives (pedp) (required – 1 page max)in an "other attachment" entitled "plan for enhancing diverse perspectives," all applicants must include a summary of strategies to advance the scientific and technical merit of the proposed project through expanded inclusivity. the pedp should provide a holistic and integrated view of how enhancing diverse perspectives is viewed and supported throughout the application and can incorporate elements with relevance to any review criteria (significance, investigator(s), innovation, approach, and environment) as appropriate. where possible, applicant(s) should align their description with these required elements within the research strategy section. the pedp will vary depending on the scientific aims, expertise required, the environment and performance site(s), as well as how the project aims are structured. the pedp may be no more than 1-page in length and should include a timeline and milestones for relevant components that will be considered as part of the review. examples of items that advance inclusivity in research and may be part of the pedp can include, but are not limited to:for further information on the plan for enhancing diverse perspectives (pedp), please see https://braininitiative.nih.gov/about/plan-enhancing-diverse-perspectives-pedp.sf424(r&r) senior/key person profileall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.r&r budgetall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.pedp implementation costs:brain non-invasive imaging consortium costs:r&r subaward budgetall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.phs 398 cover page supplementall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.phs 398 research planall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed, with the following additional instructions:this section should provide a team-centric, tangible research plan for the implementation and validation of new non-invasive imaging capabilities with the anticipated payoff of transformative impact on the study of brain function/connectivity. applicants should provide a strong scientific premise supported by a solid needs assessment (section iv.2 other project information). it is important that the necessity of the proposed work should primarily be based on urgent, unmet, and broadly impactful neuroscience research needs. equally critical and significant is technology inventiveness as stated in section i funding opportunity description.applicants should present a detailed and realistic strategy for implementing the proposed research in a phased ug3/uh3 framework. the current status of development and the end goal of the project should be clearly specified for assessing its feasibility and potential impact.startfragment preliminary/feasibility data are not required or expected for the high-risk ug3 phase. however, a sound rationale should be provided as to why the approach proposed is the most appropriate and likely to generate an exceptionally high impact if successful.endfragment depending on the readiness, the proposed ug3 phase could be as short as one year but no longer than three years. the phase transition criteria at the end of this de-risking phased should be specific and quantitative for evaluating the likelihood of success and informing potential achievements of the uh3 phase. the end goal of the uh3 phase must be for in-vivo animal or human imaging with demonstratable utility for the study of brain function/connectivity. it is strongly encouraged to guide the development of the research strategy using information provided in section i funding opportunity description and substantiate it with required milestones and timeline specified in section iv.2 other project information.the proposed research plan should reflect a team-centric, multidisciplinary approach for imaging technology development and validation. distinct features of different technological components and how they dovetail with each other to deliver the proposed performance should be adequately addressed. the interactions between team members, each should have a unique, indispensable, and non-overlapping contribution to the project, should be clearly identifiable and supported by a team management plan (section iv.2 other project information).note: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023, the data management and sharing plan will be attached in the other plan(s) attachment in forms-h application forms packages. for due dates on or before january 24, 2023, the data sharing plan and genomic data sharing plan (gds) will continue to be attached in the resource sharing plan attachment in forms-g application forms packages.other plan(s):note: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023, the data management and sharing plan will be attached in the other plan(s) attachment in forms-h application forms packages.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed, with the following additional instructions:appendix:only limited appendix materials are allowed. follow all instructions for the appendix as described in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.phs human subjects and clinical trials informationwhen involving human subjects research, clinical research, and/or nih-defined clinical trials (and when applicable, clinical trials research experience) follow all instructions for the phs human subjects and clinical trials information form in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, with the following additional instructions:if you answered “yes” to the question “are human subjects involved?” on the r&r other project information form, you must include at least one human subjects study record using the study record: phs human subjects and clinical trials information form or delayed onset study record.study record: phs human subjects and clinical trials informationall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.delayed onset studynote: delayed onset does not apply to a study that can be described but will not start immediately (i.e., delayed start).all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.phs assignment request formall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.foreign institutionsforeign (non-u.s.) institutions must follow policies described in the nih grants policy statement, and procedures for foreign institutions described throughout the sf424 (r&r) application guide.3. unique entity identifier and system for award management (sam)see part 1. section iii.1 for information regarding the requirement for obtaining a unique entity identifier and for completing and maintaining active registrations in system for award management (sam), nato commercial and government entity (ncage) code (if applicable), era commons, and grants.gov4. submission dates and timespart i. overview information contains information about key dates and times. applicants are encouraged to submit applications before the due date to ensure they have time to make any application corrections that might be necessary for successful submission. when a submission date falls on a weekend or federal holiday, the application deadline is automatically extended to the next business day.organizations must submit applications to grants.gov (the online portal to find and apply for grants across all federal agencies). applicants must then complete the submission process by tracking the status of the application in the era commons, nih’s electronic system for grants administration. nih and grants.gov systems check the application against many of the application instructions upon submission. errors must be corrected and a changed/corrected application must be submitted to grants.gov on or before the application due date and time. if a changed/corrected application is submitted after the deadline, the application will be considered late. applications that miss the due date and time are subjected to the nih policy on late application submission.applicants are responsible for viewing their application before the due date in the era commons to ensure accurate and successful submission.information on the submission process and a definition of on-time submission are provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.5. intergovernmental review (e.o. 12372)this initiative is not subject to intergovernmental review.6. funding restrictionsall nih awards are subject to the terms and conditions, cost principles, and other considerations described in the nih grants policy statement.pre-award costs are allowable only as described in the nih grants policy statement.7. other submission requirements and informationapplications must be submitted electronically following the instructions described in the sf424 (r&r) application guide. paper applications will not be accepted.applicants must complete all required registrations before the application due date. section iii. eligibility information contains information about registration.for assistance with your electronic application or for more information on the electronic submission process, visit how to apply – application guide. if you encounter a system issue beyond your control that threatens your ability to complete the submission process on-time, you must follow the dealing with system issues guidance. for assistance with application submission, contact the application submission contacts in section vii.important reminders:all pd(s)/pi(s) must include their era commons id in the credential field of the senior/key person profile form. failure to register in the commons and to include a valid pd/pi commons id in the credential field will prevent the successful submission of an electronic application to nih. see section iii of this foa for information on registration requirements.the applicant organization must ensure that the unique entity identifier provided on the application is the same identifier used in the organization’s profile in the era commons and for the system for award management. additional information may be found in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.see more tips for avoiding common errors.upon receipt, applications will be evaluated for completeness and compliance with application instructions by the center for scientific review and responsiveness by components of participating organizations, nih. applications that are incomplete, non-compliant and/or nonresponsive will not be reviewed.applications must include a pedp submitted as other project information as an attachment entitled "plan for enhancing diverse perspectives." applications that fail to include a pedp will be considered incomplete and will be withdrawn before review.post submission materialsapplicants are required to follow the instructions for post-submission materials, as described in the policy1. criteriaonly the review criteria described below will be considered in the review process. applications submitted to the nih in support of the nih mission are evaluated for scientific and technical merit through the nih peer review system.note: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023, the data sharing plan and genomic data sharing plan (gds) will not be evaluated at time of review.for this particular announcement, note the following:reviewers will provide an overall impact score to reflect their assessment of the likelihood for the project to exert a sustained, powerful influence on the research field(s) involved, in consideration of the following review criteria and additional review criteria (as applicable for the project proposed).reviewers will consider each of the review criteria below in the determination of scientific merit and give a separate score for each. an application does not need to be strong in all categories to be judged likely to have major scientific impact. for example, a project that by its nature is not innovative may be essential to advance a field.does the project address an important problem or a critical barrier to progress in the field? is the prior research that serves as the key support for the proposed project rigorous? if the aims of the project are achieved, how will scientific knowledge, technical capability, and/or clinical practice be improved? how will successful completion of the aims change the concepts, methods, technologies, treatments, services, or preventative interventions that drive this field?specific to this announcement:is the proposed technology development driven by urgent, unmet, and broadly impactful research needs? if successful, could in-vivo non-invasive brain function/connectivity studies be performed in a way unavailable or at a level not yet attainable? to what extent do the efforts described in the plan for enhancing diverse perspectives further the significance of the project?are the pd(s)/pi(s), collaborators, and other researchers well suited to the project? if early stage investigators or those in the early stages of independent careers, do they have appropriate experience and training? if established, have they demonstrated an ongoing record of accomplishments that have advanced their field(s)? if the project is collaborative or multi-pd/pi, do the investigators have complementary and integrated expertise; are their leadership approach, governance, and organizational structure appropriate for the project?specific to this announcement:does the team consist of members with unique, indispensable, and non-overlapping expertise from different disciplinaries? does the team management plan demonstrate a strong interplay between members for the proposed research to cross boundaries of interdisciplinary collaboration? is the organizational and leadership structure appropriate for achieving the goal of development and validation? for out-of-the-box thinking, does the pi have enough expertise and knowledge to carry out high-risk research? to what extent will the efforts described in the plan for enhancing diverse perspectives strengthen and enhance the expertise required for the project?does the application challenge and seek to shift current research or clinical practice paradigms by utilizing novel theoretical concepts, approaches or methodologies, instrumentation, or interventions? are the concepts, approaches or methodologies, instrumentation, or interventions novel to one field of research or novel in a broad sense? is a refinement, improvement, or new application of theoretical concepts, approaches or methodologies, instrumentation, or interventions proposed?specific to this announcement:is the proposed technology currently unavailable or severely limited in capacity? is there ingenuity at the component or system level that is nonconventional, non-iterative, and non-incremental? to what extent does the proposed development represent innovative advances over current state-of-the-art technologies, and offer competitive advantages over alternative methods? to what extent will the efforts described in the plan for enhancing diverse perspectives meaningfully contribute to innovation?are the overall strategy, methodology, and analyses well-reasoned and appropriate to accomplish the specific aims of the project? have the investigators included plans to address weaknesses in the rigor of prior research that serves as the key support for the proposed project? have the investigators presented strategies to ensure a robust and unbiased approach, as appropriate for the work proposed? are potential problems, alternative strategies, and benchmarks for success presented? if the project is in the early stages of development, will the strategy establish feasibility and will particularly risky aspects be managed? have the investigators presented adequate plans to address relevant biological variables, such as sex, for studies in vertebrate animals or human subjects?if the project involves human subjects and/or nih-defined clinical research, are the plans to address 1) the protection of human subjects from research risks, and 2) inclusion (or exclusion) of individuals on the basis of sex/gender, race, and ethnicity, as well as the inclusion or exclusion of individuals of all ages (including children and older adults), justified in terms of the scientific goals and research strategy proposed?specific to this announcement:is the proposed technology based on sound theoretical principles and engineering practices? are the current developmental status and end goal of the project clearly stated? are milestones and timeline quantitative, tangible, and realistic? are phase transition criteria clearly specified to inform the likelihood of success and scope of potential achievements of the uh3 phase? are the timeline and milestones associated with the plan for enhancing diverse perspectives well-developed and feasible?will the scientific environment in which the work will be done contribute to the probability of success? are the institutional support, equipment, and other physical resources available to the investigators adequate for the project proposed? will the project benefit from unique features of the scientific environment, subject populations, or collaborative arrangements?specific to this announcement:to what extent will features of the environment described in the plan for enhancing diverse perspectives (e.g., collaborative arrangements, geographic diversity, institutional support) contribute to the success of the project?as applicable for the project proposed, reviewers will evaluate the following additional items while determining scientific and technical merit, and in providing an overall impact score, but will not give separate scores for these items.for research that involves human subjects but does not involve one of the categories of research that are exempt under 45 cfr part 46, the committee will evaluate the justification for involvement of human subjects and the proposed protections from research risk relating to their participation according to the following five review criteria: 1) risk to subjects, 2) adequacy of protection against risks, 3) potential benefits to the subjects and others, 4) importance of the knowledge to be gained, and 5) data and safety monitoring for clinical trials.for research that involves human subjects and meets the criteria for one or more of the categories of research that are exempt under 45 cfr part 46, the committee will evaluate: 1) the justification for the exemption, 2) human subjects involvement and characteristics, and 3) sources of materials. for additional information on review of the human subjects section, please refer to the guidelines for the review of human subjects.when the proposed project involves human subjects and/or nih-defined clinical research, the committee will evaluate the proposed plans for the inclusion (or exclusion) of individuals on the basis of sex/gender, race, and ethnicity, as well as the inclusion (or exclusion) of individuals of all ages (including children and older adults) to determine if it is justified in terms of the scientific goals and research strategy proposed. for additional information on review of the inclusion section, please refer to the guidelines for the review of inclusion in clinical research.the committee will evaluate the involvement of live vertebrate animals as part of the scientific assessment according to the following criteria: (1) description of proposed procedures involving animals, including species, strains, ages, sex, and total number to be used; (2) justifications for the use of animals versus alternative models and for the appropriateness of the species proposed; (3) interventions to minimize discomfort, distress, pain and injury; and (4) justification for euthanasia method if not consistent with the avma guidelines for the euthanasia of animals. reviewers will assess the use of chimpanzees as they would any other application proposing the use of vertebrate animals. for additional information on review of the vertebrate animals section, please refer to the worksheet for review of the vertebrate animals section.reviewers will assess whether materials or procedures proposed are potentially hazardous to research personnel and/or the environment, and if needed, determine whether adequate protection is proposed.for resubmissions, the committee will evaluate the application as now presented, taking into consideration the responses to comments from the previous scientific review group and changes made to the project.not applicable.not applicable.as applicable for the project proposed, reviewers will consider each of the following items, but will not give scores for these items, and should not consider them in providing an overall impact score.reviewers will assess whether the project presents special opportunities for furthering research programs through the use of unusual talent, resources, populations, or environmental conditions that exist in other countries and either are not readily available in the united states or augment existing u.s. resources.reviewers will assess the information provided in this section of the application, including 1) the select agent(s) to be used in the proposed research, 2) the registration status of all entities where select agent(s) will be used, 3) the procedures that will be used to monitor possession use and transfer of select agent(s), and 4) plans for appropriate biosafety, biocontainment, and security of the select agent(s).note: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023, the data sharing plan and genomic data sharing plan (gds) will not be evaluated at time of review.reviewers will comment on whether the resource sharing plan(s) (i.e., sharing model organisms) or the rationale for not sharing the resources, is reasonable.for projects involving key biological and/or chemical resources, reviewers will comment on the brief plans proposed for identifying and ensuring the validity of those resources.reviewers will consider whether the budget and the requested period of support are fully justified and reasonable in relation to the proposed research.2. review and selection processapplications will be evaluated for scientific and technical merit by (an) appropriate scientific review group(s) convened by the national institute of biomedical imaging and bioengneering, in accordance with nih peer review policy and procedures, using the stated review criteria. assignment to a scientific review group will be shown in the era commons.as part of the scientific peer review, all applications will receive a written critique.applications may undergo a selection process in which only those applications deemed to have the highest scientific and technical merit (generally the top half of applications under review) will be discussed and assigned an overall impact score.applications will be assigned on the basis of established phs referral guidelines to the appropriate nih institute or center. applications will compete for available funds with all other recommended applications submitted in response to this foa. following initial peer review, recommended applications will receive a second level of review by the appropriate national advisory council or board. the following will be considered in making funding decisions:3. anticipated announcement and award datesafter the peer review of the application is completed, the pd/pi will be able to access his or her summary statement (written critique) via the era commons. refer to part 1 for dates for peer review, advisory council review, and earliest start date.information regarding the disposition of applications is available in the nih grants policy statement.1. award noticesif the application is under consideration for funding, nih will request "just-in-time" information from the applicant as described in the nih grants policy statement.a formal notification in the form of a notice of award (noa) will be provided to the applicant organization for successful applications. the noa signed by the grants management officer is the authorizing document and will be sent via email to the recipient's business official.recipients must comply with any funding restrictions described in section iv.6. funding restrictions. selection of an application for award is not an authorization to begin performance. any costs incurred before receipt of the noa are at the recipient's risk. these costs may be reimbursed only to the extent considered allowable pre-award costs.any application awarded in response to this foa will be subject to terms and conditions found on the award conditions and information for nih grants website. this includes any recent legislation and policy applicable to awards that is highlighted on this website.institutional review board or independent ethics committee approval: recipient institutions must ensure that protocols are reviewed by their irb or iec. to help ensure the safety of participants enrolled in nih-funded studies, the recipient must provide nih copies of documents related to all major changes in the status of ongoing protocols.2. administrative and national policy requirementsall nih grant and cooperative agreement awards include the nih grants policy statement as part of the noa. for these terms of award, see the nih grants policy statement part ii: terms and conditions of nih grant awards, subpart a: general and part ii: terms and conditions of nih grant awards, subpart b: terms and conditions for specific types of grants, recipients, and activities, including of note, but not limited to:if a recipient is successful and receives a notice of award, in accepting the award, the recipient agrees that any activities under the award are subject to all provisions currently in effect or implemented during the period of the award, other department regulations and policies in effect at the time of the award, and applicable statutory provisions.should the applicant organization successfully compete for an award, recipients of federal financial assistance (ffa) from hhs will be required to complete an hhs assurance of compliance form (hhs 690) in which the recipient agrees, as a term and condition of receiving the grant, to administer their programs in compliance with federal civil rights laws that prohibit discrimination on the basis of race, color, national origin, age, sex and disability, and agreeing to comply with federal conscience laws, where applicable. this includes ensuring that entities take meaningful steps to provide meaningful access to persons with limited english proficiency; and ensuring effective communication with persons with disabilities. where applicable, title xi and section 1557 prohibit discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation, and gender identity. the hhs office for civil rights provides guidance on complying with civil rights laws enforced by hhs. please see https://www.hhs.gov/civil-rights/for-providers/provider-obligations/index.html and https://www.hhs.gov/civil-rights/for-individuals/nondiscrimination/index.htmlhhs recognizes that research projects are often limited in scope for many reasons that are nondiscriminatory, such as the principal investigator’s scientific interest, funding limitations, recruitment requirements, and other considerations. thus, criteria in research protocols that target or exclude certain populations are warranted where nondiscriminatory justifications establish that such criteria are appropriate with respect to the health or safety of the subjects, the scientific study design, or the purpose of the research. for additional guidance regarding how the provisions apply to nih grant programs, please contact the scientific/research contact that is identified in section vii under agency contacts of this foa.please contact the hhs office for civil rights for more information about obligations and prohibitions under federal civil rights laws at https://www.hhs.gov/ocr/about-us/contact-us/index.html or call 1-800-368-1019 or tdd 1-800-537-7697.in accordance with the statutory provisions contained in section 872 of the duncan hunter national defense authorization act of fiscal year 2009 (public law 110-417), nih awards will be subject to the federal awardee performance and integrity information system (fapiis) requirements. fapiis requires federal award making officials to review and consider information about an applicant in the designated integrity and performance system (currently fapiis) prior to making an award. an applicant, at its option, may review information in the designated integrity and performance systems accessible through fapiis and comment on any information about itself that a federal agency previously entered and is currently in fapiis. the federal awarding agency will consider any comments by the applicant, in addition to other information in fapiis, in making a judgement about the applicant’s integrity, business ethics, and record of performance under federal awards when completing the review of risk posed by applicants as described in 45 cfr part 75.205 and 2 cfr part 200.206 “federal awarding agency review of risk posed by applicants.” this provision will apply to all nih grants and cooperative agreements except fellowships.”the following special terms of award are in addition to, and not in lieu of, otherwise applicable u.s. office of management and budget (omb) administrative guidelines, u.s. department of health and human services (dhhs) grant administration regulations at 45 cfr part 75, and other hhs, phs, and nih grant administration policies.the administrative and funding instrument used for this program will be the cooperative agreement, an "assistance" mechanism (rather than an "acquisition" mechanism), in which substantial nih programmatic involvement with the recipientsis anticipated during the performance of the activities. under the cooperative agreement, the nih purpose is to support and stimulate the recipients' activities by involvement in and otherwise working jointly with the award recipients in a partnership role; it is not to assume direction, prime responsibility, or a dominant role in the activities. consistent with this concept, the dominant role and prime responsibility resides with the recipientsfor the project as a whole, although specific tasks and activities may be shared among the recipients and the nih as defined below.the pd(s)/pi(s) will have the primary responsibilities as described below:nih staff have substantial programmatic involvement that is above and beyond the normal stewardship role in the awards, as described below:areas of joint responsibility include:dispute resolution:any disagreements that may arise in scientific or programmatic matters (within the scope of the award) between award recipients and the nih may be brought to dispute resolution. a dispute resolution panel composed of three members will be convened. these three members include: a designee chosen by the recipient, one nih designee, and a third designee with expertise in the relevant area who is chosen by the other two. this special dispute resolution procedure does not alter the recipient's right to appeal an adverse action that is otherwise appealable in accordance with phs regulation 42 cfr part 50, subpart d and dhhs regulation 45 cfr part 1.3. data management and sharingnote: the nih policy for data management and sharing is effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023.consistent with the nih policy for data management and sharing, when data management and sharing is applicable to the award, recipients will be required to adhere to the data management and sharing requirements as outlined in the nih grants policy statement. upon the approval of a data management and sharing plan, it is required for recipients to implement the plan as described.4. reportingwhen multiple years are involved, recipients will be required to submit the research performance progress report (rppr) annually and financial statements as required in the nih grants policy statement.a final rppr, invention statement, and the expenditure data portion of the federal financial report are required for closeout of an award, as described in the nih grants policy statement. nih foas outline intended research goals and objectives. post award, nih will review and measure performance based on the details and outcomes that are shared within the rppr, as described at 45 cfr part 75.301 and 2 cfr part 200.301.the federal funding accountability and transparency act of 2006 (transparency act), includes a requirement for recipients of federal grants to report information about first-tier subawards and executive compensation under federal assistance awards issued in fy2011 or later. all recipients of applicable nih grants and cooperative agreements are required to report to the federal subaward reporting system (fsrs) available at www.fsrs.gov on all subawards over the threshold. see the nih grants policy statement for additional information on this reporting requirement.in accordance with the regulatory requirements provided at 45 cfr 75.113 and 2 cfr part 200.113 and appendix xii to 45 cfr part 75 and 2 cfr part 200, recipients that have currently active federal grants, cooperative agreements, and procurement contracts from all federal awarding agencies with a cumulative total value greater than $10,000,000 for any period of time during the period of performance of a federal award, must report and maintain the currency of information reported in the system for award management (sam) about civil, criminal, and administrative proceedings in connection with the award or performance of a federal award that reached final disposition within the most recent five-year period. the recipient must also make semiannual disclosures regarding such proceedings. proceedings information will be made publicly available in the designated integrity and performance system (currently fapiis). this is a statutory requirement under section 872 of public law 110-417, as amended (41 u.s.c. 2313). as required by section 3010 of public law 111-212, all information posted in the designated integrity and performance system on or after april 15, 2011, except past performance reviews required for federal procurement contracts, will be publicly available. full reporting requirements and procedures are found in appendix xii to 45 cfr part 75 and 2 cfr part 200 – award term and condition for recipient integrity and performance matters.we encourage inquiries concerning this funding opportunity and welcome the opportunity to answer questions from potential applicants.era service desk (questions regarding assist, era commons, application errors and warnings, documenting system problems that threaten submission by the due date, and post-submission issues)finding help online: https://www.era.nih.gov/need-help (preferred method of contact) telephone: 301-402-7469 or 866-504-9552 (toll free)general grants information (questions regarding application instructions, application processes, and nih grant resources) email: grantsinfo@nih.gov (preferred method of contact) telephone: 301-637-3015grants.gov customer support (questions regarding grants.gov registration and workspace) contact center telephone: 800-518-4726 email: support@grants.govshumin wang, ph.d.national institute of biomedical imaging and bioengineering (nibib)telephone: 301-594-9001email: shumin.wang@nih.govmanana sukhareva, ph.d.national institute of biomedical imaging and bioengineering (nibib)telephone: 301-451-3397email: sukharem@mail.nih.govfinancial/grants management contact(s)katie ellisnational institute of biomedical imaging and bioengineering (nibib)telephone: 301-451-4791email: kellis@mail.nih.govrecently issued trans-nih policy notices may affect your application submission. a full list of policy notices published by nih is provided in the nih guide for grants and contracts. all awards are subject to the terms and conditions, cost principles, and other considerations described in the nih grants policy statement.awards are made under the authorization of sections 301 and 405 of the public health service act as amended (42 usc 241 and 284) and under federal regulations 42 cfr part 52 and 45 cfr part 75 and 2 cfr part 200.weekly toc for this announcement nih funding opportunities and noticesnote: for help accessing pdf, rtf, ms word, excel, powerpoint, audio or video files, see help downloading files.