Catalyze: Product Definition for Small Molecules and Biologics - Preliminary Product/Lead Series Identification (R33 - Clinical Trial Not Allowed)
https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/rfa-files/RFA-HL-23-012.html
national institutes of health (nih)national heart, lung, and blood institute (nhlbi)r33 exploratory/developmental grants phase ii.see notices of special interest associated with this funding opportunitysee section iii. 3. additional information on eligibility.this funding opportunity announcement (foa) will provide the early stage translational support needed to identify a lead compound series toward development of potential therapeutic agents to treat heart, lung, blood, and sleep (hlbs) diseases and disorders. this foa is part of a suite of catalyze innovation grants to advance projects to the point where they can meet the entry criteria for the nhlbi catalyze preclinical program or attract independent development support from other federal or private partners for preclinical optimization and development of therapeutic agents.30 days prior to the application due dateall applications are due by 5:00 pm local time of applicant organization.applicants are encouraged to apply early to allow adequate time to make any corrections to errors found in the application during the submission process by the due date.not applicableit is critical that applicants follow the instructions in the research (r) instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide,except where instructed to do otherwise (in this foa or in a notice from nih guide for grants and contracts ).conformance to all requirements (both in the application guide and the foa) is required and strictly enforced. applicants must read and follow all application instructions in the application guide as well as any program-specific instructions noted in section iv. when the program-specific instructions deviate from those in the application guide, follow the program-specific instructions.applications that do not comply with these instructions may be delayed or not accepted for review.there are several options available to submit your application through grants.gov to nih and department of health and human services partners. you must use one of these submission options to access the application forms for this opportunity.purposethe nhlbi catalyze innovation program is designed to provide a suite of comprehensive support and services to facilitate the transition of basic science discoveries into new treatments for diseases and disorders that fall under the nhlbi mission. the catalyze program initiatives support product development (supporting product definition studies and pre-clinical research and development) and enabling technologies and transformative platforms. catalyze is coordinated by the catalyze coordinating center, which provides program administration and evaluation, milestone-driven project management, communications and outreach, as well as development guidance for projects in the catalyze portfolio. the catalyze program aims to create cultural and systemic changes to more rapidly move breakthrough innovations to products that will have health, economic, and societal impact. information on the catalyze programs can be found on the catalyze website.this specific catalyze product definition initiative will provide the early stage translational support needed for the activities required to develop a lead compound series to identify potential therapeutics to treat hlbs diseases and disorders. following successful completion of the program, it is expected that the lead compound series will be poised to move forward for preclinical testing (optimization, safety, efficacy) with additional support from nih and/or other federal and private programs. for projects that are at an earlier stage (target identification and validation), a companion initiative is available (rfa-hl-23-011). through catalyze, the small molecule and biologics initiatives have companion initiatives that support development of devices, diagnostics and tools (rfa-hl-23-013 and rfa-hl-23-014), and an initiative to support the development of enabling technologies and transformative platforms for hlbs (rfa-hl-23-010). see website for additional information.overview - catalyze product definition: small molecules and biologicsobjectivesapplicants will be expected to have met the following:award activitiesthis foa is intended to support projects that propose to identify a lead compound series for pre-clinical testing and development.examples of activities include but are not limited to:applications considered nonresponsive to the foa will not be reviewed. examples of activities that are not appropriate for and would be considered nonresponsive to this foa include, but are not limited to:special requirements for this foathe nhlbi recognizes that early stage therapeutics development requires access to unique expertise, including regulatory, reimbursement, business, legal, partner engagement, and project management. the nhlbi will work with awardees to provide guidance and support in these unique areas of expertise, if needed, to enable advancement of therapeutic agents towards preclinical testing and development.project managementeach project is expected to use project management processes that guide the studies to successful completion of the established milestones. while it may not be possible to have a full-time project manager, each project is expected to identify a team member who will hold this responsibility as a part of their project management plan. the catalyze coordinating center may support the local project management through resources, educational materials, and regular communications. the project manager will support the development of milestones, timelines, and identification of risks and mitigation strategies and will work closely with the program officer and with the support of the catalyze coordinating center to update and refine these upon notice of award and as needed through the project.milestonesapplicants are expected to propose activities and milestones, with an associated timeline, to be completed during the proposed duration of award. successful awardees will develop specific, measurable, achievable, relevant, and time-bound specific aims for their project. each specific aim should have at least one milestone associated with it. milestones are an event or moment in time in a project that indicates progress toward a specific aim has been made or that a specific aim has been completed. the project specific aims and milestones should be laid out as a timeline or gantt chart as a part of the application. specific aims or a list of activities planned for each year are not considered milestones because they do not provide decision-making goals.milestones will be peer reviewed as well as programmatically reviewed and if needed will be negotiated with the awardee before they are included in the terms of the award. nhlbi staff will monitor program progress against proposed milestones through quarterly meetings and make non-competing award decisions annually based on achieving milestones. nhlbi emphasizes the importance of the robustness and reproducibility of experimental results in evaluating progress.cost matching componentcost matching is expected for applicants responding to this foa. it is recommended that awardees provide a minimum of a 0.25:1 non-federal cash match of the federal direct costs requested. institutions must be able to document their actual contributions to the project and provide assurances that the organization(s) are committed to providing the funds and resources for their share of the project. federal funds may not be used as a source of matching funds. to be considered responsive to this foa, applicants are expected to provide sufficient information regarding the use of any third party support to demonstrate a substantial value-added contribution toward the development of the technology. i.generally, cost matching may not be met from the following sources:the application must include a letter of support from any non-federal source(s) of cost matching. applications that do not include the letter of support from the non-federal source(s) of cost matching are incomplete for this foa and will not be peer reviewed.accelerator partner(s)at least one accelerator partner is required for this award.accelerator partners are commercialization experts working as development partners with innovators whose projects are funded through the catalyze program. accelerator partners help innovator-researchers achieve the necessary multidisciplinary approach for developing technologies. accelerator partners provide skills development and mentoring to enable innovator-researchers to assess the medical and commercial potential of their projects. they also help advance the proposed projects to a stage suitable to continue product development in the private sector or to apply for support through other nhlbi translational programs. accelerator partners may do this by connecting innovator-researchers with individuals such as:accelerator partners are encouraged to provide access to expertise and mentoring related to: product development stages, business development and commercialization strategy, market analysis, preparation of regulatory submissions, intellectual property protection, and reimbursement strategy. awardees are highly encouraged to use accelerator partners for this kind of career development, as these experts can facilitate exposure to the myriad processes required to translate discoveries into therapies. applicants are expected to consider how they will identify and foster relationships with accelerator partners.it is acceptable for an accelerator partner to provide the matching funds for the r33 stage, but not required.evidence of an accelerator partner is required and applicants must include a letter of support from the accelerator partner in their application. applications that do not include the letter of support from the accelerator partner are incomplete for this foa and will not be peer reviewed.intellectual property and regulatory considerationsprojects at the stage of development supported through this foa are expected to be developed to the point where ip and regulatory strategies are under consideration. this foa requires that applicants submit their preliminary ip and regulatory strategies in their applications, even if the plans are not yet fully developed. see section iv, application and submission information, sf424(r&r) other project information for details.additional considerationsapplicants are strongly encouraged to contact scientific/research staff listed in section vii to discuss potential research projects prior to submitting an application.prior to funding an application, nhlbi program staff may contact the applicant to discuss the proposed milestones and any changes suggested by the nhlbi review panel or program staff. a final set of approved milestones will be specified in the notice of award.see section viii. other information for award authorities and regulations.grant: a support mechanism providing money, property, or both to an eligible entity to carry out an approved project or activity.the oer glossary and the sf424 (r&r) application guide provide details on these application types. only those application types listed here are allowed for this foa.the oer glossary and the sf424 (r&r) application guide provide details on these application types. only those application types listed here are allowed for this foa.not allowed: only accepting applications that do not propose clinical trials.need help determining whether you are doing a clinical trial?need help determining whether you are doing a clinical trial?nhlbi intends to commit total costs of up to $6,277,500 per year in fy2023, fy2024, and fy2025. these funds are anticipated to fund up to 13 new awards per year in fiscal years 2023 through fy2025 for projects submitted to this foa and three companion funding opportunity announcements (rfa-hl-23-011, rfa-hl-23-013, rfa-hl-014).the number of awards is contingent upon nih appropriations and the submission of a sufficient number of meritorious applications.application budgets must not exceed direct costs of $350,000 per year.the total budget (federal award and non-federal matching contributions) should reflect the actual needs of the overall proposed project. annual project budgets should reflect the actual costs anticipated in each year.matching funds: the recipient is expected to provide at least a 0.25:1 non-federal match of the federal direct costs requested.the maximum project period is up to two years. the scope of the proposed project should determine the requested project award period.nih grants policies as described in the nih grants policy statement will apply to the applications submitted and awards made from this foa.1. eligible applicantshigher education institutionsthe following types of higher education institutions are always encouraged to apply for nih support as public or private institutions of higher education:nonprofits other than institutions of higher educationfor-profit organizationslocal governmentsfederal governmentothernon-domestic (non-u.s.) entities (foreign institutions) are not eligible to apply.non-domestic (non-u.s.) components of u.s. organizations are eligible to apply.foreign components, as defined in the nih grants policy statement, are allowed.applicant organizationsapplicant organizations must complete and maintain the following registrations as described in the sf 424 (r&r) application guide to be eligible to apply for or receive an award. all registrations must be completed prior to the application being submitted. registration can take 6 weeks or more, so applicants should begin the registration process as soon as possible. the nih policy on late submission of grant applications states that failure to complete registrations in advance of a due date is not a valid reason for a late submission.program directors/principal investigators (pd(s)/pi(s))all pd(s)/pi(s) must have an era commons account. pd(s)/pi(s) should work with their organizational officials to either create a new account or to affiliate their existing account with the applicant organization in era commons. if the pd/pi is also the organizational signing official, they must have two distinct era commons accounts, one for each role. obtaining an era commons account can take up to 2 weeks.any individual(s) with the skills, knowledge, and resources necessary to carry out the proposed research as the program director(s)/principal investigator(s) (pd(s)/pi(s)) is invited to work with his/her organization to develop an application for support. individuals from underrepresented racial and ethnic groups as well as individuals with disabilities are always encouraged to apply for nih support.for institutions/organizations proposing multiple pds/pis, visit the multiple program director/principal investigator policy and submission details in the senior/key person profile (expanded) component of the sf424 (r&r) application guide.2. cost sharingthis foa has an expectation of cost matching as defined in the nih grants policy statement. more information on the cost matching expectation is in section iv.2 r&r or modular budget.3. additional information on eligibilitynumber of applicationsapplicant organizations may submit more than one application, provided that each application is scientifically distinct.the nih will not accept duplicate or highly overlapping applications under review at the same time, per 2.3.7.4 submission of resubmission application. this means that the nih will not accept:1. requesting an application packagethe application forms package specific to this opportunity must be accessed through assist, grants.gov workspace or an institutional system-to-system solution. links to apply using assist or grants.gov workspace are available in part 1 of this foa. see your administrative office for instructions if you plan to use an institutional system-to-system solution.2. content and form of application submissionletter of intentalthough a letter of intent is not required, is not binding, and does not enter into the review of a subsequent application, the information that it contains allows ic staff to estimate the potential review workload and plan the review.by the date listed in part 1. overview information, prospective applicants are asked to submit a letter of intent that includes the following information:the letter of intent should be sent to:director, office of scientific reviewnational heart, lung, and blood instituteemail: nhlbichiefreviewbranch@nhlbi.nih.govall page limitations described in the sf424 application guide and the table of page limits must be followed.note: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023, the data management and sharing (dms) plan will be attached in the other plan(s) attachment in forms-h and subsequent application forms packages. for due dates on or before january 24, 2023, the data sharing plan and genomic data sharing plan gds) will continue to be attached in the resource sharing plan attachment in forms-g application forms packages.the following section supplements the instructions found in the sf424 (r&r) application guide and should be used for preparing an application to this foa.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.other attachments:ip and regulatory strategies (required)preliminary ip and regulatory plans must be described in an attachment using the filename "ip and regulatory strategies.pdf".nhlbi recognizes that applications submitted in response to this foa may detail projects at different stages of development. applications should include a detailed description of intellectual property (ip) and regulatory strategies for more advanced projects. if the project is too early for a well-defined strategy, the applicant should indicate so and provide a brief description of the current stage and potential ip and regulatory strategies. for more advanced projects, applicants should address their current understanding of regulatory and ip requirements for the proposed product, even if the plans are not fully complete.for ip, describe any known constraints that could impede the therapeutic discovery and development (e.g., certain restrictions under transfer or sharing agreements, applicants' previous or present ip filings and publications, similar therapies that are under patent protection and/or on the market, etc.) and how these issues could be addressed with achieving the goals of this program. if any third-party ip is required, identify whether there are any limitations on its use and include a letter from the third-party appended as part of this attachment. if patents pertinent to the therapy being developed under this application have been filed, include the details of filing dates, what type of patents are filed, application status, and associated uspto links, if applicable. describe plans for working closely with institutional technology transfer officials to ensure that royalty agreements, patent filings, and all other necessary ip arrangements are completed in a timely manner and that commercialization plans are developed and updated over the course of the project. for ip, applicants are encouraged to prepare this section of the application in consultation with their institution's technology transfer officials.for the regulatory path, describe the steps that will be taken to refine and align the proposed project with regulatory requirements either during the currently requested award period or in the future. if a drug or biologic is being developed – describe the data to be collected during the project period to support an investigational new drug filing. if the development team has already interacted with their local irb or fda regarding regulatory oversight of their proposed product, provide evidence of prior communications (letters/emails) appended as part of this attachment. if the project involves re-purposing of a therapy currently marketed in the us, a letter of support for the new indication from a manufacturer of the therapy at the time of application or as post-submission material must be submitted. if there is hypertext in communication with fda (e.g., hyperlinks and urls), these should either be removed or disabled by the applicants before submission in accorndace with nih policy on the use of hypertext (https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/notice-files/not-od-20-174.html).if the project involves re-purposing of a therapy currently under development in the us, a letter of support for the new indication from the manufacturer of the therapy – confirming access to sufficient quantity of the not-yet-marketed technology to perform the proposed research program – should be submitted as post-submission material. if possible, for this stage of the project, describe the expected regulatory pathway including any foreseeable regulatory risks or accelerated programs that could impact development.applicants are also strongly encouraged to contact the appropriate nih scientific/research contact listed in section vii for questions regarding application expectations for ip and regulatory prior to submission.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.r&r budgetall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.applicants should include budget support for the pd/pi to participate in a 1.5-day nhlbi-held innovation meeting or workshop once each budget year in the washington, dc/metropolitan area.applicants should budget for an appropriate amount of project management support.budget justification:a total project budget justification (i.e., the requested budget plus the cost-matching budget) must be provided and must document the cost-matching (non-federal) component and the federal (non-cost matching) component. any costs and contributions used to provide cost matching must be documented by the recipient prior to release of the r33 award and are subject to audit.the amount, type, and source of funding/contributions from sources other than nih must be presented in detail in the budget justification. third party support of the proposed research activity (if approved) will be incorporated as a term and condition of award. if the third party support ceases and the program is no longer tenable without the third party support, a close-out plan may be requested.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.other plan(s):note: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023, the data management and sharing plan will be attached in the other plan(s) attachment in forms-h and subsequent application forms packages. for due dates on or before january 24, 2023, the data sharing plan and genomic data sharing plan gds) will continue to be attached in the resource sharing plan attachment in forms-g application forms packages.all applicants planning research (funded or conducted in whole or in part by nih) that results in the generation of scientific data are required to comply with the instructions for the data management and sharing plan. all applications, regardless of the amount of direct costs requested for any one year, must address a data management and sharing plan.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed, with the following additional instructions:applications that do not include the letter of support from the accelerator partner are considered incomplete for this foa and will not be peer reviewed.specific aimsstate the specific objectives of the efforts and include the activities to be conducted to meet the goals of lead series identification.research strategydescribe milestones to be completed during the award with an associated timeline. include a background section that clearly outlines the biological and therapeutic rationale for the application, including: (1) a description of the relationship between the proposed therapeutic target and the disease of interest, (2) evidence for unmet medical need in the therapeutic disease area, (3) a brief description of any pertinent history for therapeutic development in the disease area, (4) evidence supporting the novelty of the therapeutic approach, and (5) a summary of the project status, including information regarding therapeutic agents to be tested in the current application. provide a carefully developed rationale for the experimental design. include a description of how data obtained through this grant will provide a path for optimization of preliminary therapeutic agents.milestones: define milestones that are specific, measurable, achievable, relevant, and time-bound. the milestones should allow program staff to assess progress during the period of the award. specific aims or a list of activities are not considered milestones.timeline: provide a timeline that clearly delineates the specific milestones for the work proposed in each year of the award. indicate when it is anticipated that essential components of the project will be completed.project managementdescribe plans for utilizing project management processes to enable continuous assessment of the progress of the project relative to the established milestones and how the progress assessments will be used to make strategic decisions regarding the proposed project. while it may not be possible to have a full-time project manager, each project is expected to identify a team member who will hold this responsibility as a part of their project management plan. the catalyze coordinating center may support the project management through resources, educational materials, and regular communications. describe plans for how the selected project management process(es) will support product development studies of the preliminary product, lead series identification.rigor and reproducibilityhigh-quality and reproducible product definition studies are an essential cornerstone of the translational research enterprise. attention to principles of study design and transparency is essential to enable stakeholders to assess the quality of the experimental design and scientific findings. in support of this important goal, investigators must follow instructions to address rigor and reproducibility (https://grants.nih.gov/policy/reproducibility/index.htm).letters of supportthe application must include a letter of support from the non-federal source(s) of cost matching that documents their actual contributions to the project and demonstrates assurances that they are committed to providing the cost matching funds and/or resources for their share of the project. applications that do not include the letter of support from the non-federal source(s) of cost matching are incomplete for this foa and will not be peer reviewed.resource sharing plan: individuals are required to comply with the instructions for the resource sharing plans as provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.when involving human subjects research, clinical research, and/or nih-defined clinical trials (and when applicable, clinical trials research experience) follow all instructions for the phs human subjects and clinical trials information form in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, with the following additional instructions:if you answered “yes” to the question “are human subjects involved?” on the r&r other project information form, you must include at least one human subjects study record using the study record: phs human subjects and clinical trials information form or delayed onset study record.study record: phs human subjects and clinical trials informationall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.delayed onset studynote: delayed onset does not apply to a study that can be described but will not start immediately (i.e., delayed start).all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.3. unique entity identifier and system for award management (sam)see part 1. section iii.1 for information regarding the requirement for obtaining a unique entity identifier and for completing and maintaining active registrations in system for award management (sam), nato commercial and government entity (ncage) code (if applicable), era commons, and grants.govpart i. overview information contains information about key dates and times. applicants are encouraged to submit applications before the due date to ensure they have time to make any application corrections that might be necessary for successful submission. when a submission date falls on a weekend or federal holiday, the application deadline is automatically extended to the next business day.organizations must submit applications to grants.gov (the online portal to find and apply for grants across all federal agencies). applicants must then complete the submission process by tracking the status of the application in the era commons, nih’s electronic system for grants administration. nih and grants.gov systems check the application against many of the application instructions upon submission. errors must be corrected and a changed/corrected application must be submitted to grants.gov on or before the application due date and time. if a changed/corrected application is submitted after the deadline, the application will be considered late. applications that miss the due date and time are subjected to the nih policy on late application submission.applicants are responsible for viewing their application before the due date in the era commons to ensure accurate and successful submission.information on the submission process and a definition of on-time submission are provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.5. intergovernmental review (e.o. 12372)this initiative is not subject to intergovernmental review.all nih awards are subject to the terms and conditions, cost principles, and other considerations described in the nih grants policy statement.pre-award costs are allowable only as described in the nih grants policy statement.applications must be submitted electronically following the instructions described in the sf424 (r&r) application guide. paper applications will not be accepted.applicants must complete all required registrations before the application due date. section iii. eligibility information contains information about registration.for assistance with your electronic application or for more information on the electronic submission process, visit how to apply – application guide. if you encounter a system issue beyond your control that threatens your ability to complete the submission process on-time, you must follow the dealing with system issues guidance. for assistance with application submission, contact the application submission contacts in section vii.important reminders:all pd(s)/pi(s) must include their era commons id in the credential fieldof the senior/key person profile form. failure to register in the commons and to include a valid pd/pi commons id in the credential field will prevent the successful submission of an electronic application to nih. see section iii of this foa for information on registration requirements.the applicant organization must ensure that the unique entity identifier (duns number or uei as required) provided on the application is the same number used in the organization’s profile in the era commons and for the system for award management. additional information may be found in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.see more tips for avoiding common errors.upon receipt, applications will be evaluated for completeness and compliance with application instructions by the center for scientific review and responsiveness by nhlbi. applications that are incomplete, non-compliant and/or nonresponsive will not be reviewed.applicants are required to follow the instructions for post-submission materials, as described in the policy. any instructions provided here are in addition to the instructions in the policy.if the project involves re-purposing of a therapy currently marketed in the us, a letter of support for the new indication from a manufacturer of the therapy must be submitted at the time of application or as post-submission material.if the project involves re-purposing of a therapy currently under development in the us, a letter of support for the new indication from the manufacturer of the therapy – confirming access to sufficient quantity of the not-yet-marketed technology to perform the proposed research program – must be submitted at the time of application or as post-submission material.1. criterianote: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023, the data sharing plan and genomic data sharing plan (gds) as part of the resource sharing plan will not be evaluated at time of review.only the review criteria described below will be considered in the review process. applications submitted to the nih in support of the nih mission are evaluated for scientific and technical merit through the nih peer review system.overall impactreviewers will provide an overall impact score to reflect their assessment of the likelihood for the project to exert a sustained, powerful influence on the research field(s) involved, in consideration of the following review criteria and additional review criteria (as applicable for the project proposed).scored review criteriareviewers will consider each of the review criteria below in the determination of scientific merit, and give a separate score for each. an application does not need to be strong in all categories to be judged likely to have major scientific impact. for example, a project that by its nature is not innovative may be essential to advance a field.significancedoes the project address an important problem or a critical barrier to progress in the field? is the prior research that serves as the key support for the proposed project rigorous? if the aims of the project are achieved, how will scientific knowledge, technical capability, and/or clinical practice be improved? how will successful completion of the aims change the concepts, methods, technologies, treatments, services, or preventative interventions that drive this field?specific to this foa:? how will the project, if successful, bring the investigators closer to a therapeutic that will be a significant improvement over existing therapeutics to treat hlbs disorders? how well does the application describe how the project will provide significant improvement over the existing technology?investigator(s)are the pd(s)/pi(s), collaborators, and other researchers well suited to the project? if early stage investigators or those in the early stages of independent careers, do they have appropriate experience and training? if established, have they demonstrated an ongoing record of accomplishments that have advanced their field(s)? if the project is collaborative or multi-pd/pi, do the investigators have complementary and integrated expertise; are their leadership approach, governance and organizational structure appropriate for the project?specific to this foa:to what extent does the application demonstrate that the investigators are knowledgeable and experienced about the biological target area? to what extent does the researcher have experience with target identification and validation, and lead selection, or include collaborators with the appropriate expertise to support the proposed experimental design and implementation activities and overall project?innovationdoes the application challenge and seek to shift current research or clinical practice paradigms by utilizing novel theoretical concepts, approaches or methodologies, instrumentation, or interventions? are the concepts, approaches or methodologies, instrumentation, or interventions novel to one field of research or novel in a broad sense? is a refinement, improvement, or new application of theoretical concepts, approaches or methodologies, instrumentation, or interventions proposed?specific to this foa:to what extent is the project novel and relevant for therapeutic development?approachare the overall strategy, methodology, and analyses well-reasoned and appropriate to accomplish the specific aims of the project? have the investigators included plans to address weaknesses in the rigor of prior research that serves as the key support for the proposed project? have the investigators presented strategies to ensure a robust and unbiased approach, as appropriate for the work proposed? are potential problems, alternative strategies, and benchmarks for success presented? if the project is in the early stages of development, will the strategy establish feasibility and will particularly risky aspects be managed? have the investigators presented adequate plans to address relevant biological variables, such as sex, for studies in vertebrate animals or human subjects?if the project involves human subjects and/or nih-defined clinical research, are the plans to address 1) the protection of human subjects from research risks, and 2) inclusion (or exclusion) of individuals on the basis of sex/gender, race, and ethnicity, as well as the inclusion or exclusion of individuals of all ages (including children and older adults), justified in terms of the scientific goals and research strategy proposed?specific to this foa:project managementto what extent is the described project management structure likely to be efficient and effective in keeping the proposed activities on schedule according to the proposed timeline?milestones and timelinesare the listed milestones for each phase appropriate for achieving the goals of the project? to what extent are the milestones specific, measurable, achievable, relevant, and time-bound? how well-suited are the specified milestones for promoting the investigator to be successful in completing the proposed award activities? to what extent are the proposed timelines for achieving the milestones realistic, achievable and non-duplicative?environmentwill the scientific environment in which the work will be done contribute to the probability of success? are the institutional support, equipment and other physical resources available to the investigators adequate for the project proposed? will the project benefit from unique features of the scientific environment, subject populations, or collaborative arrangements?additional review criteriaas applicable for the project proposed, reviewers will evaluate the following additional items while determining scientific and technical merit, and in providing an overall impact score, but will not give separate scores for these items.protections for human subjectsfor research that involves human subjects but does not involve one of the categories of research that are exempt under 45 cfr part 46, the committee will evaluate the justification for involvement of human subjects and the proposed protections from research risk relating to their participation according to the following five review criteria: 1) risk to subjects, 2) adequacy of protection against risks, 3) potential benefits to the subjects and others, 4) importance of the knowledge to be gained, and 5) data and safety monitoring for clinical trials.for research that involves human subjects and meets the criteria for one or more of the categories of research that are exempt under 45 cfr part 46, the committee will evaluate: 1) the justification for the exemption, 2) human subjects involvement and characteristics, and 3) sources of materials. for additional information on review of the human subjects section, please refer to the guidelines for the review of human subjects.inclusion of women, minorities, and individuals across the lifespanwhen the proposed project involves human subjects and/or nih-defined clinical research, the committee will evaluate the proposed plans for the inclusion (or exclusion) of individuals on the basis of sex/gender, race, and ethnicity, as well as the inclusion (or exclusion) of individuals of all ages (including children and older adults) to determine if it is justified in terms of the scientific goals and research strategy proposed. for additional information on review of the inclusion section, please refer to the guidelines for the review of inclusion in clinical research.vertebrate animalsthe committee will evaluate the involvement of live vertebrate animals as part of the scientific assessment according to the following criteria: (1) description of proposed procedures involving animals, including species, strains, ages, sex, and total number to be used; (2) justifications for the use of animals versus alternative models and for the appropriateness of the species proposed; (3) interventions to minimize discomfort, distress, pain and injury; and (4) justification for euthanasia method if not consistent with the avma guidelines for the euthanasia of animals. reviewers will assess the use of chimpanzees as they would any other application proposing the use of vertebrate animals. for additional information on review of the vertebrate animals section, please refer to the worksheet for review of the vertebrate animal section.biohazardsreviewers will assess whether materials or procedures proposed are potentially hazardous to research personnel and/or the environment, and if needed, determine whether adequate protection is proposed.resubmissionsfor resubmissions, the committee will evaluate the application as now presented, taking into consideration the responses to comments from the previous scientific review group and changes made to the project.renewalsfor renewals, the committee will consider the progress made in the last funding period.revisionsnot applicablenote: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023, the data sharing plan and genomic data sharing plan (gds) as part of the resource sharing plan will not be evaluated at time of review.as applicable for the project proposed, reviewers will consider each of the following items, but will not give scores for these items, and should not consider them in providing an overall impact score.intellectual property and regulatory strategyto what extent are the proposed ip and regulatory strategies appropriate for the stage of development? for ip, what are the known constraints that could impede their therapeutic discovery and development and solutions to address these issues. if any third-party ip is required, did applicant describe whether there are any limitations that exist on its use, if appropriate?if appropriate for the stage of development, have the applicants included ip and regulatory considerations for gaining market access of their technology? how does the application demonstrate an understanding of which (if any) food and drug administration (fda) center and review division of panel will review their technology? has the application proposed a reasonable market access pathway (ind leading to bla, nda, or 510(b)(2) application for drugs/biologics? if applicable, how has the application demonstrated relevant personal experience, discussion with a consultant, and/or interaction with the fda?applications from foreign organizationsnot applicable.select agent researchreviewers will assess the information provided in this section of the application, including 1) the select agent(s) to be used in the proposed research, 2) the registration status of all entities where select agent(s) will be used, 3) the procedures that will be used to monitor possession use and transfer of select agent(s), and 4) plans for appropriate biosafety, biocontainment, and security of the select agent(s).resource sharing plansreviewers will comment on whether the following resource sharing plans, or the rationale for not sharing the following types of resources, are reasonable: (1) data sharing plan; (2) sharing model organisms; and (3) genomic data sharing plan (gds).authentication of key biological and/or chemical resources:for projects involving key biological and/or chemical resources, reviewers will comment on the brief plans proposed for identifying and ensuring the validity of those resources.budget and period of supportreviewers will consider whether the budget and the requested period of support are fully justified and reasonable in relation to the proposed research.2. review and selection processapplications will be evaluated for scientific and technical merit by a special emphasis panel convened by the national heart lung and blood institute in accordance with nih peer review policy and procedures using the stated review criteria.as part of the scientific peer review, all applications will receive a written critique.applications may undergo a selection process in which only those applications deemed to have the highest scientific and technical merit (generally the top half of applications under review) will be discussed and assigned an overall impact score.appeals of initial peer review will not be accepted for applications submitted in response to this foa.3. anticipated announcement and award datesafter the peer review of the application is completed, the pd/pi will be able to access his or her summary statement (written critique) via the era commons. refer to part 1 for dates for peer review, advisory council review, and earliest start date.information regarding the disposition of applications is available in the nih grants policy statement.1. award noticesif the application is under consideration for funding, nih will request "just-in-time" information from the applicant as described in the nih grants policy statement.a formal notification in the form of a notice of award (noa) will be provided to the applicant organization for successful applications. the noa signed by the grants management officer is the authorizing document and will be sent via email to the recipient's business official.recipients must comply with any funding restrictions described in section iv.5. funding restrictions. selection of an application for award is not an authorization to begin performance. any costs incurred before receipt of the noa are at the recipient's risk. these costs may be reimbursed only to the extent considered allowable pre-award costs.any application awarded in response to this foa will be subject to terms and conditions found on the award conditions and information for nih grants website. this includes any recent legislation and policy applicable to awards that is highlighted on this website.institutional review board or independent ethics committee approval: recipient institutions must ensure that protocols are reviewed by their irb or iec. to help ensure the safety of participants enrolled in nih-funded studies, the recipient must provide nih copies of documents related to all major changes in the status of ongoing protocols.2. administrative and national policy requirementsall nih grant and cooperative agreement awards include the nih grants policy statement as part of the noa. for these terms of award, see the nih grants policy statement part ii: terms and conditions of nih grant awards, subpart a: general and part ii: terms and conditions of nih grant awards, subpart b: terms and conditions for specific types of grants, recipients, and activities, including of note, but not limited to:if a recipient is successful and receives a notice of award, in accepting the award, the recipient agrees that any activities under the award are subject to all provisions currently in effect or implemented during the period of the award, other department regulations and policies in effect at the time of the award, and applicable statutory provisions.should the applicant organization successfully compete for an award, recipients of federal financial assistance (ffa) from hhs must administer their programs in compliance with federal civil rights laws that prohibit discrimination on the basis of race, color, national origin, disability, age and, in some circumstances, religion, conscience, and sex (including gender identify, sexual orientation, and pregnancy). this includes ensuring programs are accessible to persons with limited english proficiency and persons with disabilities. the hhs office for civil rights provides guidance on complying with civil rights laws enforced by hhs. please see https://www.hhs.gov/civil-rights/for-providers/provider-obligations/index.html and https://www.hhs.gov/civil-rights/for-individuals/nondiscrimination/index.htmlhhs recognizes that research projects are often limited in scope for many reasons that are nondiscriminatory, such as the principal investigator’s scientific interest, funding limitations, recruitment requirements, and other considerations. thus, criteria in research protocols that target or exclude certain populations are warranted where nondiscriminatory justifications establish that such criteria are appropriate with respect to the health or safety of the subjects, the scientific study design, or the purpose of the research. for additional guidance regarding how the provisions apply to nih grant programs, please contact the scientific/research contact that is identified in section vii under agency contacts of this foa.please contact the hhs office for civil rights for more information about obligations and prohibitions under federal civil rights laws at https://www.hhs.gov/ocr/about-us/contact-us/index.html or call 1-800-368-1019 or tdd 1-800-537-7697.in accordance with the statutory provisions contained in section 872 of the duncan hunter national defense authorization act of fiscal year 2009 (public law 110-417), nih awards will be subject to the federal awardee performance and integrity information system (fapiis) requirements. fapiis requires federal award making officials to review and consider information about an applicant in the designated integrity and performance system (currently fapiis) prior to making an award. an applicant, at its option, may review information in the designated integrity and performance systems accessible through fapiis and comment on any information about itself that a federal agency previously entered and is currently in fapiis. the federal awarding agency will consider any comments by the applicant, in addition to other information in fapiis, in making a judgement about the applicant’s integrity, business ethics, and record of performance under federal awards when completing the review of risk posed by applicants as described in 45 cfr part 75.205and 2 cfr part 200.206 “federal awarding agency review of risk posed by applicants.” this provision will apply to all nih grants and cooperative agreements except fellowships.not applicabledata management and sharingnote: the nih policy for data management and sharing is effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023.consistent with the nih policy for data management and sharing, when data management and sharing is applicable to the award, recipients will be required to adhere to the data management and sharing requirements as outlined in the nih grants policy statement. upon the approval of a data management and sharing plan, it is required for recipients to implement the plan as described.3. reportingwhen multiple years are involved, recipients will be required to submit the research performance progress report (rppr) annually and financial statements as required in the nih grants policy statement.a final rppr, invention statement, and the expenditure data portion of the federal financial report are required for closeout of an award, as described in the nih grants policy statement. nih foas outline intended research goals and objectives. post award, nih will review and measure performance based on the details and outcomes that are shared within the rppr, as described at 45 cfr part 75.301 and 2 cfr part 200.301.the federal funding accountability and transparency act of 2006 (transparency act), includes a requirement for recipients of federal grants to report information about first-tier subawards and executive compensation under federal assistance awards issued in fy2011 or later. all recipients of applicable nih grants and cooperative agreements are required to report to the federal subaward reporting system (fsrs) available at www.fsrs.gov on all subawards over $25,000. see the nih grants policy statement for additional information on this reporting requirement.in accordance with the regulatory requirements provided at 45 cfr 75.113 and appendix xii to 45 cfr part 75, recipients that have currently active federal grants, cooperative agreements, and procurement contracts from all federal awarding agencies with a cumulative total value greater than $10,000,000 for any period of time during the period of performance of a federal award, must report and maintain the currency of information reported in the system for award management (sam) about civil, criminal, and administrative proceedings in connection with the award or performance of a federal award that reached final disposition within the most recent five-year period. the recipient must also make semiannual disclosures regarding such proceedings. proceedings information will be made publicly available in the designated integrity and performance system (currently fapiis). this is a statutory requirement under section 872 of public law 110-417, as amended (41 u.s.c. 2313). as required by section 3010 of public law 111-212, all information posted in the designated integrity and performance system on or after april 15, 2011, except past performance reviews required for federal procurement contracts, will be publicly available. full reporting requirements and procedures are found in appendix xii to 45 cfr part 75 – award term and conditions for recipient integrity and performance matters.we encourage inquiries concerning this funding opportunity and welcome the opportunity to answer questions from potential applicants.era service desk (questions regarding assist, era commons, application errors and warnings, documenting system problems that threaten submission by the due date, and post-submission issues)finding help online: http://grants.nih.gov/support/ (preferred method of contact) telephone: 301-402-7469 or 866-504-9552 (toll free)general grants information (questions regarding application instructions, application processes, and nih grant resources) email: grantsinfo@nih.gov (preferred method of contact) telephone: 301-637-3015grants.gov customer support (questions regarding grants.gov registration and workspace) contact center telephone: 800-518-4726 email: support@grants.govgeneral questions mike pieck, ph.d. telephone: 301-827-7986 email: nhlbi_catalyze@nih.govproduct definition - small molecules and biologics narasimhan danthi, ph.d. telephone: 301-451-5170 email: ndanthi@nhlbi.nih.govdirector, office of scientific reviewheart, lung, and blood institute (nhlbi)telephone: 301-435-0270email: nhlbichiefreviewbranch@nhlbi.nih.govron caulder national heart, lung, and blood institute (nhlbi) telephone: 301-827-8020 email: caulderr@mail..nih.govrecently issued trans-nih policy notices may affect your application submission. a full list of policy notices published by nih is provided in the nih guide for grants and contracts. all awards are subject to the terms and conditions, cost principles, and other considerations described in the nih grants policy statement.awards are made under the authorization of sections 301 and 405 of the public health service act as amended (42 usc 241 and 284) and under federal regulations 42 cfr part 52 and 45 cfr part 75.weekly toc for this announcement nih funding opportunities and noticesnote: for help accessing pdf, rtf, ms word, excel, powerpoint, audio or video files, see help downloading files.