Autoimmunity Centers of Excellence, Clinical Research Program (UM1 Clinical Trial Required)   
https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/rfa-files/RFA-AI-22-071.html
national institutes of health (nih)national institute of allergy and infectious diseases (niaid)um1 research project with complex structure cooperative agreementnot-od-22-195 - new nih "forms-h" grant application forms and instructions coming for due dates on or after january 25, 2023not-od-22-189 - implementation details for the nih data management and sharing policynot-od-22-198 - implementation changes for genomic data sharing plans included with applications due on or after january 25, 2023not-od-23-012 - reminder: forms-h grant application forms & instructions must be used for due dates on or after january 25, 2023 - new grant application instructions now availableonly one application per institution is allowed, as defined in section iii. 3. additional information on eligibility.the purpose of this funding opportunity announcement (foa) is to solicit applications to participate in the niaid autoimmunity centers of excellence (ace), a cooperative network intended to improve the understanding, prevention, and treatment of autoimmune diseases. the ace program was founded on the premise that collaborations among basic and clinical scientists can accelerate both fundamental and applied research. the ace combines basic and clinical research programs. this foa solicits applications for the clinical research program; a companion foa solicits applications for the basic research program. members of the clinical research program will conduct innovative studies of human autoimmunity within clinical and collaborative projects. members of the basic and clinical ace will work together to design and conduct studies of autoimmune disease pathogenesis and mechanisms of action of immune-modulating interventions being tested in ace clinical trials.30 days prior to the application due dateall applications are due by 5:00 pm local time of applicant organization.applicants are encouraged to apply early to allow adequate time to make any corrections to errors found in the application during the submission process by the due date.not applicableit is critical that applicants follow the instructions in the research (r) instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, except where instructed to do otherwise (in this foa or in a notice from nih guide for grants and contracts).conformance to all requirements (both in the application guide and the foa) is required and strictly enforced. applicants must read and follow all application instructions in the application guide as well as any program-specific instructions noted in section iv. when the program-specific instructions deviate from those in the application guide, follow the program-specific instructions.applications that do not comply with these instructions may be delayed or not accepted for review.there are several options available to submit your application through grants.gov to nih and department of health and human services partners. you must use one of these submission options to access the application forms for this opportunity.purposethis foa solicits applications for the clinical research program of the autoimmunity centers of excellence (ace). the companion foa (rfa-ai-22-070) solicits applications to the basic research program of the ace. the goal of the ace is to conduct insightful analyses of human immunology as it applies to autoimmune disease(s), within and among collaborative centers and especially in the context of clinical projects, i.e., clinical trials with integrated mechanistic studies. the members of the clinical and basic ace will work together after award to design, develop, and conduct studies of autoimmunity and autoimmune diseases in humans.this approach is expected to advance our fundamental understanding of human autoimmunity, identify common and distinct mechanisms in the pathogenesis of autoimmune diseases, and clarify mechanisms of action of immune-modulating interventions used in therapy or tested in clinical trials.backgroundthe ace program was founded to accelerate the discovery and translation from lab to clinic of therapies for autoimmune diseases. the ace conducts cooperative clinical, mechanistic, and basic studies; fosters intellectual and material collaborations among scientists; and facilitates the study of clinical samples by research scientists.the ace combines two research programs – basic and clinical – that align grant awards with responsibilities. the clinical research program develops and conducts clinical projects (i.e., clinical trials with integrated mechanistic studies) as well as collaborative projects investigating fundamental human immunology. the basic research program provides a solid scientific foundation and conducts advanced, collaborative investigations into human immunology.the members of the basic and clinical programs will work closely together to fully develop and conduct the mechanistic studies in clinical projects and other studies of mechanism and pathogenesis.the ace has conducted clinical projects in areas that include systemic lupus erythematosus, multiple sclerosis, rheumatoid arthritis, sjögren's syndrome, ulcerative colitis, scleroderma, and pemphigus vulgaris (partial list: clinicaltrials.gov). the collaborative ace research plan and annual progress reports of the current ace are available on the public ace website.collaborations among ace basic and clinical scientists have been productive although challenging to initiate and maintain. a 2005 trans-nih autoimmune diseases research plan advocated for clinical trials with integrated mechanistic studies that "utilize materials and data from clinical trials to elucidate underlying mechanisms of drug activity and immune response." this plan also acknowledged that clinical trials are lengthy, risky, and expensive, conceding "many agents that show promising results in preclinical studies do not advance to clinical trials" and noting that new treatments are sometimes discovered "when practitioners identify new uses for medications originally approved for other conditions." the importance of informative clinical trials in developing new therapies and evaluating existing therapies also was emphasized in a report from the institute of medicine, "envisioning a transformed clinical trials enterprise in the united states: establishing an agenda for 2020: workshop summary". well-designed clinical studies can be fundamentally informative even if the intervention does not ultimately advance to licensure and clinical practice.the ace responded to the covid-19 pandemic by developing a clinical trial to test the serological response to vaccination in adults with autoimmune disease (acv01: nct05000216). additional sars-cov2 studies were performed in these and other cohorts of adults and children with autoimmune disease (acv02, prism: nct04588363).research objectives and scopethe objectives of the ace are to accelerate the discovery and translation from lab to clinic of therapies for autoimmune diseases. the ace program approaches these objectives by conducting cooperative basic, clinical, and mechanistic studies; fostering intellectual and material collaborations among basic and clinical scientists; and facilitating the study of clinical samples by basic research scientists. projects designed to test explicit hypotheses are preferred though 'data-driven' projects are permitted. the program is expected to advance our fundamental understanding of human autoimmunity, identify common and distinct mechanisms in the pathogenesis of autoimmune diseases, and clarify mechanisms of action of immune-modulating agents used in therapy or tested in clinical trials.research scope: all projects must investigate autoimmune disease in humans.approach: the ace program coordinates individual centers, each awarded through either this clinical program or through the companion basic research program. the 6 elements of each clinical center are described below in this section (administration coordination, ace funds management coordination (afmc), ace biorepository coordination (abc), primary and alternate clinical projects, and the collaborative project). the elements of the ace program, and how the centers work together, are described in the following section (ace program).program elements of the clinical research acea clinical ace application must include two clinical projects (primary and alternate), a collaborative project, an administrative coordination group, an ace funds management coordination (afmc) group, and an ace biorepository coordination (abc) group. these elements are described below:administrative coordination: the administrative coordination group is responsible for providing overall leadership to the center, including management, coordination, and oversight for the center activities.ace funds management coordination (afmc): the afmc will administer, on behalf of the entire ace, two funds: 1) the clinical project fund for support of the clinical projects and 2) the collaborative research fund for support of the collaborative projects and additional studies required for achieving the aims of the ace research agenda. one of the awardees will be selected by niaid after award to administer the afmc. clinical and collaborative projects will be funded through the recipient of the afmc.ace biorepository coordination (abc): on behalf of the entire ace, the abc will help coordinate the collection and storage of samples from ace clinical projects and provide them for use in mechanistic studies. one of the recipients, selected by niaid based on reviews and other criteria, will be awarded the abc.clinical projects: each clinical ace must propose two clinical projects:both clinical projects should be ready for implementation soon after award. the primary and alternate clinical projects must address different diseases and have different leaders, though both projects may be within one clinical specialty. the clinical projects will be phased for development based on peer review and programmatic assessment, independent of the designation primary or alternate; the prioritized clinical trial is expected to open within a year of award. trials that continue or follow-up on-going ace clinical projects are encouraged. neither clinical project may include mechanistic studies within industry-supported clinical trials.a clinical project is defined in this foa as a clinical trial together with integrated mechanistic studies. the nih defines a clinical trial as "a research study in which one or more human subjects are prospectively assigned to one or more interventions (which may include placebo or other control) to evaluate the effects of those interventions on health-related biomedical or behavioral outcomes" (full definition here: nih clinical trial). mechanistic studies are designed to improve the understanding of the mechanism of action of the intervention or the pathogenesis of the disease. in addition to assessing practical questions about the intervention, such as whether the targeted cell or molecule has been affected, these studies should be designed to address fundamental questions about human immunology. after award, a team of ace investigators will be formed to help develop and implement mechanistic studies. sample collection, storage, and distribution from the trial will be coordinated with the abc.clinical projects developed by the ace should be innovative and propose clear, testable hypotheses on underlying immune mechanisms. mechanisms of interest include the intervention, the disease, and fundamental immunity. the proposed clinical projects may aim to generate initial evidence of efficacy and mechanism, using resources appropriate to the scope of the ace network.a clinical project may not be shared between applications to this foa. only unique clinical projects will be selected for funding. applicants may propose collaborations with other investigators (who also may be applicants), but the complete clinical project must be contained within a single application.types of trials that may be proposed include but are not limited to the following:clinical projects of particular interest to the ace include, but are not limited to the following:applications proposing the following for clinical projects will be considered non-responsive and will not be reviewed:collaborative project: the collaborative project should be designed to test at least one specific hypothesis on the nature of human autoimmunity, exploit particular strengths of the applicant, and engage other members of the ace after award. the goals should exceed the reach of a single center and produce a greater-than-additive return. it is recognized that applicants will not know in advance with whom they will be collaborating because the members of the ace will not be known before award; therefore, applicants should make reasonable assumptions as to the types of collaborations that will be available and build flexibility into their research plans. recent programs have demonstrated the importance of the centers' themes in subsequent collaborations. the ace will fully develop the collaborative projects after award, and they should be designed to become part of the ace research agenda (see below). collaborative projects may be expanded or reduced after award, depending upon how well they are ultimately integrated within the ace.collaborative projects will be supported for three years; support in years 4 and 5 will depend on progress and funds available.this project may use samples from previously completed clinical trials or studies, but it may not support a clinical trial. collaborative projects must be related to the overarching theme of the applicant's proposed center.specific areas of interest for collaborative projects include, but are not limited to:applications proposing the following for a collaborative project will be considered non-responsive and will not be reviewed:ace programthe ace will coordinate the activities of the clinical and basic research programs through the following elements:steering committee:a steering committee will be formed with the pds/pis of the basic and clinical research programs. the steering committee will have responsibility for collaboratively formulating the ace research agenda, and for helping develop, finalize, and implement clinical and collaborative projects. the steering committee also is responsible for reviewing ace clinical project budgets and publications reporting ace clinical trial results.ace research agenda: the steering committee will formulate and write an ace research agenda that includes overarching themes, goals, and approaches for the period of award. the agenda will incorporate the best themes and goals from the individual centers as well as the clinical projects and the collaborative projects. the research agenda of the current ace cycle and their annual progress reports are posted on the public ace website. the ace will be responsible for on-going "legacy" clinical projects.plenary meeting: the ace will convene an annual plenary meeting, preceding one of the twice-annual face-to-face steering committee meetings, to exchange information and develop collaborations among the investigators. all key personnel, including project leaders, are expected to attend and participate by presenting the aims, status, and highlights of their projects.resources provided by niaidstatistical, data management, site monitoring, pharmacy, and operations support: niaid will provide statistical, data collection and management, site monitoring, and clinical trial operations support through the separately funded autoimmune diseases-statistical and clinical coordinating center (ad-sccc) contract as well as other trial support resources. niaid provides information and guidance for nih funded clinical research in research rules & policies, which includes aclinical research toolkit, guidance for the management and use of drugs is also provided within the linked dait pharmacy manual.investigators proposing nih-defined clinical trials may refer to the research methods resources website for information about developing statistical methods and study designs.nih’s interest in diversitynih strongly encourages applicants to include a diverse group of scientists in their research programs, including individuals from underrepresented backgrounds (see not-od-20-031, notice of nih’s interest in diversity and not-od-22-019, reminder: notice of nih’s encouragement of applications supporting individuals from underrepresented ethnic and racial groups as well as individuals with disabilities).for more information, please see faq here.see section viii. other information for award authorities and regulations.investigators proposing nih-defined clinical trials may refer to the research methods resources website for information about developing statistical methods and study designs.cooperative agreement: a support mechanism used when there will be substantial federal scientific or programmatic involvement. substantial involvement means that, after award, nih scientific or program staff will assist, guide, coordinate, or participate in project activities. see section vi.2 for additional information about the substantial involvement for this foa.the oer glossary and the sf424 (r&r) application guide provide details on these application types. only those application types listed here are allowed for this foa.required: only accepting applications that propose clinical trial(s).need help determining whether you are doing a clinical trial?niaid plans to commit $7.2 million to the ace program (clinical and basic) in fiscal year 2024, which includes approximately $3 million direct costs annually to support an ace clinical project fund and an ace collaborative project fund. overall support will be divided between the clinical and basic programs: niaid anticipates 2-4 um1 awards within the ace clinical research program.application budgets are not expected to exceed $700,000 annual direct costs for the clinical projects, $150,000 annual direct costs for the collaborative project, $50,000 annual direct costs for the administrative coordination, $250,000 in annual direct costs for ace funds management coordination (afmc), and $250,000 in annual direct costs for ace biorepository coordination (abc). the administrative coordination group of each ace will be awarded directly by niaid. projects will be supported through consortium agreements by the afmc, which will be awarded up to approximately $3,000,000 annual direct costs for the ace clinical project fund and collaborative project fund. one ace recipient will be selected to receive funds for the afmc and ace clinical project fund and collaborative project fund. one ace recipient will be selected to receive funds for the abc.the total project period is 5 years.nih grants policies as described in the nih grants policy statement will apply to the applications submitted and awards made from this foa.1. eligible applicantshigher education institutionsthe following types of higher education institutions are always encouraged to apply for nih support as public or private institutions of higher education:nonprofits other than institutions of higher educationfor-profit organizationslocal governmentsfederal governmentothernon-domestic (non-u.s.) entities (foreign institutions) are not eligible to apply.non-domestic (non-u.s.) components of u.s. organizations are not eligible to apply.foreign components, as defined in the nih grants policy statement, are allowed.applicant organizationsapplicant organizations must complete and maintain the following registrations as described in the sf 424 (r&r) application guide to be eligible to apply for or receive an award. all registrations must be completed prior to the application being submitted. registration can take 6 weeks or more, so applicants should begin the registration process as soon as possible. the nih policy on late submission of grant applications states that failure to complete registrations in advance of a due date is not a valid reason for a late submission.program directors/principal investigators (pd(s)/pi(s))all pd(s)/pi(s) must have an era commons account. pd(s)/pi(s) should work with their organizational officials to either create a new account or to affiliate their existing account with the applicant organization in era commons. if the pd/pi is also the organizational signing official, they must have two distinct era commons accounts, one for each role. obtaining an era commons account can take up to 2 weeks.any individual(s) with the skills, knowledge, and resources necessary to carry out the proposed research as the program director(s)/principal investigator(s) (pd(s)/pi(s)) is invited to work with his/her organization to develop an application for support. individuals from diverse backgrounds, including underrepresented racial and ethnic groups, individuals with disabilities, and women are always encouraged to apply for nih support. see, reminder: notice of nih's encouragement of applications supporting individuals from underrepresented ethnic and racial groups as well as individuals with disabilities, not-od-22-019.for institutions/organizations proposing multiple pds/pis, visit the multiple program director/principal investigator policy and submission details in the senior/key person profile (expanded) component of the sf424 (r&r) application guide.an individual may serve as pd/pi on an application to either this clinical ace program foa or the companion basic ace program foa (rfa-ai-22-070), but not both. an individual may serve as project leader or in another role (non-pd/pi) on applications to both foas. note that the multiple pds/pis option may only be used for the overall program leader.2. cost sharingthis foa does not require cost sharing as defined in the nih grants policy statement.3. additional information on eligibilitynumber of applicationsonly one application per institution (normally identified by having a unique uei or nih ipf number) is allowed.the nih will not accept duplicate or highly overlapping applications under review at the same time, per 2.3.7.4 submission of resubmission application. this means that the nih will not accept:1. requesting an application packagethe application forms package specific to this opportunity must be accessed through assist, grants.gov workspace or an institutional system-to-system solution. links to apply using assist or grants.gov workspace are available in part 1 of this foa. see your administrative office for instructions if you plan to use an institutional system-to-system solution.2. content and form of application submissionit is critical that applicants follow the instructions in the research (r) instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide except where instructed in this funding opportunity announcement to do otherwise. conformance to the requirements in the application guide is required and strictly enforced. applications that are out of compliance with these instructions may be delayed or not accepted for review.letter of intentalthough a letter of intent is not required, is not binding, and does not enter into the review of a subsequent application, the information that it contains allows ic staff to estimate the potential review workload and plan the review.by the date listed in part 1. overview information, prospective applicants are asked to submit a letter of intent that includes the following information:the letter of intent should be sent to:kelly l. hudspeth, ph.d. telephone: 240-215-5441 email: kelly.hudspeth@nih.govall page limitations described in the sf424 application guide and the table of page limits must be followed, with the following exceptions or additional requirements:the research strategy must consist of the following sections with the indicated page limits:section a. overview of the proposed ace clinical research program--12 pages section b. administrative coordination --6 pages section c. ace funds management coordination --6 pages section d. ace biorepository coordination --6 pages section e. primary clinical project--12 pages section f. alternate clinical project--12 pages section g. collaborative project--12 pagesthe following section supplements the instructions found in the sf424 (r&r) application guide and should be used for preparing an application to this foa.note: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023, the data management and sharing plan will be attached in the other plan(s) attachment in forms-h application forms packages.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followedall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed, with the following additional instructions:for facilities and other resources, describe the availability of all special services needed to complete the trial.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed, with the following additional instructions:each clinical research project, collaborative project, and administrative group (administrative coordination, afmc, and abc) must be led by one person; co-leaders of projects or administrative groups are not allowed. a pd/pi may lead no more than one of the proposed projects. the pd/pi (or one of the pds/pis if multiple pds/pis) should also lead the administrative coordination group. describe the experience of the investigators in developing and conducting collaborative research and highlight any participation in clinical trials with mechanistic studies. include the investigators' experience in clinical trials in the proposed study area and participation in investigator-initiated clinical trials. list accomplishments and describe the synergies and collaborations that occurred.r&r budgetall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed, with the following additional instructions:in the budget justification, provide budget breakouts for the individual center elements, i.e., administrative coordination, afmc, abc, and projects (primary and alternate clinical projects and the collaborative project).administrative coordination:ace funds management coordination (afmc):the afmc application budgets must include the following items:ace biorepository coordination (abc): the abc application budgets must include the following items:clinical research projects:application budgets for clinical projects are not expected to exceed $700,000 in direct costs per year, and should reflect the actual needs of the project. each clinical project is expected to require support for between 2 to 5 years to complete. applications that propose enrollment at foreign sites will be considered non-responsive and will not be reviewed. aggregate costs of the two proposed clinical projects are expected to require approximately $700,000 direct costs per year, for a combined total of 5 years of support. clinical trials are expected to open within a year of award. applicants may request support to complete development of the primary clinical project in the first half year of award, followed by the full costs of implementation. the full costs of the clinical projects approved for development will be paid by the clinical project fund that will be awarded separately to the afmc. budgets should be based on per-patient costs and include the other costs of performing the trial (clinical research tests, coordinator, and pd/pi time, proposed study intervention costs, including drug costs, if applicable, pharmacy costs, mechanistic study costs, etc.).the costs for data collection and management, statistical support, site monitoring, as well as regulatory and pharmacy, and other costs associated with trial management will be borne by the clinical trial support resources at niaid. full development of the clinical project will begin soon after award, with the involvement of the other ace grantees and the help of niaid and ad-sccc staff. after award, additional funds to support the development and implementation of clinical trials and associated mechanistic studies may be provided by the clinical project fund.collaborative project:application budgets for collaborative projects are not expected to exceed $150,000 in direct costs per year for 5 years and should reflect the actual needs of the project. funding levels will be determined post-award and will be guided by the final form of the ace research agenda. funds for the collaborative project will be provided by the afmc, once that has been established.r&r subaward budgetall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed, with the following additional instructions:specific aims: briefly introduce and describe the approach of the center to autoimmune disease research and therapy, specifically including the following:research strategy: the research strategy section must consist of sections a-f as designated below.section a. overview of the proposed ace clinical research program (12 pages)in this narrative section, summarize the overall research strategy for the application and explain how the proposed center satisfies the purpose and objectives of this foa to accelerate the discovery and translation from lab to clinic of therapies for autoimmune diseases.describe how the proposed primary and alternate clinical projects and the collaborative project fit under the overarching center theme. explain how the center addresses key roadblocks in the development of treatments for two different autoimmune diseases. each project in this application must have its own scientific merit and complement the others. this section is an opportunity for the investigators to give conceptual wholeness to the overall program by stating the general problems and by presenting a comprehensive strategy for solving them. as the strategy develops, the projects and coordination groups (administrative, afmc, and abc) should be placed in the overall program. describe how the individual research projects and coordination groups synergize towards fulfilling the central theme and objectives of the program. include a description of the advantages the proposed center will gain from participating in the ace program and what the center will contribute to the overall group.renewal applicants are encouraged to extend on-going or recently completed clinical projects in new directions; on-going clinical projects will be continued to completion as 'legacy' projects. renewal applications may propose to renew and continue on-going collaborative projects or to begin entirely new research projects. for research projects that will be continued as part of a renewal application, provide additional details in the progress report section of the research strategy within the appropriate research project.advisory committee (optional): for applicants proposing to appoint an advisory committee, describe the expertise and responsibilities of the potential committee members. for new applications, do not name, contact or recruit potential members until application review activities are completed. for renewal applications, provide the names of current and recent members.section b. administrative coordinationsection c. ace funds management coordination (afmc)list in priority order the proposed activities and services of the afmc. the afmc plan must include the following:section d. ace biorepository coordination (abc)list in priority order the proposed activities and services of the abc. the abc plan must include the following:sections e and f: primary and alternate clinical projects.describe both the primary and alternate clinical projects in separate sections, based on the following instructions (section e: primary; section f: alternate). note that for each clinical trial, applicants will provide specific information in a matching phs human subjects and clinical trials information (study record) section, which should not be duplicated in the research strategy section. each clinical project must have matched phs human subjects and clinical trials information section (study record).introduce the hypothesis or hypotheses to be tested in the clinical project and outline the approach to testing the hypothesis/hypotheses. explain the importance of anticipated results, alternative results, and approaches to the interpretation of results (e.g., what anticipated results support or disprove your hypothesis?). in addition to stating the biological and clinical significance of the research, indicate the project's relevance to the theme of the application.this section should include:section g. collaborative projectdescribe and explain the strategy to test the proposed hypothesis or hypotheses for the collaborative project. outline the approach and explain the rationale for selecting the methods proposed to test the hypothesis/hypotheses. in addition to stating the biological and clinical significance of the research, indicate the project's relevance to the theme of the applicant's proposed center and how it relates to other projects. since applicants will not know in advance what other ace centers may be funded, applicants may consider proposing projects that start from their own specific expertise and disease focus and later seek to generalize observations and mechanisms to other autoimmune diseases. this could be accomplished with collaborators who have complementary strengths and skills. the collaborative project must be coherent, but it may lack some details if they can be reasonably developed with additional ace collaborators after award. the collaborative project must include a research plan for the entire project period, including plans for formulating annual benchmarks for evaluating progress on the research project.the ace will fully develop the collaborative projects after award, and they should be designed to become part of the ace research agenda. collaborative projects may be expanded or reduced after award, depending upon how well they are integrated within the ace. collaborative projects will be supported for three years; support in years 4 and 5 will depend on progress and funds available.letters of supportprovide all appropriate letters of support, including any letters necessary to demonstrate the support of consortium/site participants, institutional facilities, laboratories, pharmacies, and other collaborators. if parts of the costs of the trial are to be borne by sources other than nih, these contributions must be presented in detail as part of supporting letters signed by individuals who have the authority to make fiduciary commitments on behalf of the institution. these outsource costs do not constitute cost sharing as defined in the current nih grants policy statement and should not be presented either as part of the requested budget or as estimated project funding.to document their commitment, include letters in support of the following:other plan(s):note: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023, the data management and sharing plan will be attached in the other plan(s) attachment in forms-h application forms packages.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed, with the following additional instructions:only limited appendix materials are allowed. follow all instructions for the appendix as described in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, with the following modifications:applicants must include the following:applications that do not include complete appendix materials are incomplete and will not be reviewed.investigators are referred to the trans-niaid clinical research toolkit website for clinical protocol guidance and templates (https://www.niaid.nih.gov/research/trans-niaid-clinical-research-toolkit). investigators are urged to be succinct.when involving human subjects research, clinical research, and/or nih-defined clinical trials (and when applicable, clinical trials research experience) follow all instructions for the phs human subjects and clinical trials information form in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, with the following additional instructions:if you answered “yes” to the question “are human subjects involved?” on the r&r other project information form, you must include at least one human subjects study record using the study record: phs human subjects and clinical trials information form or delayed onset study record.study record: phs human subjects and clinical trials informationall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed, with the following additional instructions:foa-specific additional instructions.for studies involving the use of identifiable human biospecimens collected from independently funded clinical research or clinical trials, applicants should include both historical and current study information that is clearly distinguishable within the information requested in the study record forms.section 2 - study population characteristics2.5. recruitment and retention planattach a document that describes the following:2.7. study timelinedescribe a series of milestones for completion of the clinical trial and provide contingency plans should there be delays in attaining them. this section must include timelines for, as applicable:section 4 - protocol synopsis4.1 study design4.1.a detailed descriptionin the narrative description of the protocol, include the following:4.1.c interventionsthe description of the intervention should include the availability of the proposed study intervention and schema showing the schedule of interventions. if competitive interventions are proposed, include a discussion of their clinical and economic advantages and disadvantages.4.3 statistical design and powerattach a description of the plans for how the statistical analysis will be designed, as well as clarify the underlying assumptions (and data) used to link these calculations to the endpoints and to the hypothesis(es) being tested. this plan is critical to knowing whether applicants have selected the correct cohort size based on proper power calculations and/or are using the most appropriate methods to analyze the resulting data and make correct conclusions at the end of the study. the ability to make conclusions of primary outcomes other than safety will be particularly important in small studies. the final statistical analysis plan will be developed by the ace and ad-sccc after award.section 5 - other clinical trial-related attachments5.1 other clinical trial-related attachmentsthe following additional documents should be included as attachments, as appropriate (append filenames for each study record with a unique name, e.g. for study record 1, append filename with name.1, for study record 2, append filename with name.2, etc.):description of the plans to implement and monitor good clinical practices (gcp)description of the plans to implement and monitor good laboratory practices (glp), anddescription of the plans to implement and monitor good manufacturing practices (gmp)delayed onset studynote: delayed onset does not apply to a study that can be described but will not start immediately (i.e., delayed start).all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.3. unique entity identifier and system for award management (sam)see part 1. section iii.1 for information regarding the requirement for obtaining a unique entity identifier and for completing and maintaining active registrations in system for award management (sam), nato commercial and government entity (ncage) code (if applicable), era commons, and grants.gov.part i. overview information contains information about key dates and times. applicants are encouraged to submit applications before the due date to ensure they have time to make any application corrections that might be necessary for successful submission. when a submission date falls on a weekend or federal holiday, the application deadline is automatically extended to the next business day.organizations must submit applications to grants.gov (the online portal to find and apply for grants across all federal agencies). applicants must then complete the submission process by tracking the status of the application in the era commons, nih’s electronic system for grants administration. nih and grants.gov systems check the application against many of the application instructions upon submission. errors must be corrected and a changed/corrected application must be submitted to grants.gov on or before the application due date and time. if a changed/corrected application is submitted after the deadline, the application will be considered late. applications that miss the due date and time are subjected to the nih policy on late application submission.applicants are responsible for viewing their application before the due date in the era commons to ensure accurate and successful submission.information on the submission process and a definition of on-time submission are provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.5. intergovernmental review (e.o. 12372)this initiative is not subject to intergovernmental review.all nih awards are subject to the terms and conditions, cost principles, and other considerations described in the nih grants policy statement.pre-award costs are allowable only as described in the nih grants policy statement.applications must be submitted electronically following the instructions described in the sf424 (r&r) application guide. paper applications will not be accepted.applicants must complete all required registrations before the application due date. section iii. eligibility information contains information about registration.for assistance with your electronic application or for more information on the electronic submission process, visit how to apply – application guide. if you encounter a system issue beyond your control that threatens your ability to complete the submission process on-time, you must follow the dealing with system issues guidance. for assistance with application submission, contact the application submission contacts in section vii.important reminders:all pd(s)/pi(s) must include their era commons id in the credential fieldof the senior/key person profile form. failure to register in the commons and to include a valid pd/pi commons id in the credential field will prevent the successful submission of an electronic application to nih. see section iii of this foa for information on registration requirements.the applicant organization must ensure that the unique entity identifier provided on the application is the same identifier used in the organization’s profile in the era commons and for the system for award management. additional information may be found in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.see more tips for avoiding common errors.upon receipt, applications will be evaluated for completeness and compliance with application instructions by the center for scientific review and responsiveness by niaid, nih. applications that are incomplete, non-compliant and/or nonresponsive will not be reviewed.applicants are required to follow the instructions for post-submission materials, as described in the policy1. criteriaonly the review criteria described below will be considered in the review process. applications submitted to the nih in support of the nih mission are evaluated for scientific and technical merit through the nih peer review system.note: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023, the data sharing plan and genomic data sharing plan (gds) will not be evaluated at time of review.a proposed clinical trial application may include study design, methods, and intervention that are not by themselves innovative but address important questions or unmet needs. additionally, the results of the clinical trial may indicate that further clinical development of the intervention is unwarranted or lead to new avenues of scientific investigation.overall impactreviewers will provide an overall impact score to reflect their assessment of the likelihood for the project to exert a sustained, powerful influence on the research field(s) involved, in consideration of the following review criteria and additional review criteria (as applicable for the project proposed).while each application will be evaluated in its entirety based on one overall impact score per application, the primary clinical project, the alternate clinical project, the collaborative research project, and the administrative coordination within each application will also each receive a separate impact score.scored review criteriareviewers will consider each of the review criteria below in the determination of scientific merit and give a separate score for each. an application does not need to be strong in all categories to be judged likely to have major scientific impact. for example, a project that by its nature is not innovative may be essential to advance a field.significancedoes the project address an important problem or a critical barrier to progress in the field? is the prior research that serves as the key support for the proposed project rigorous? if the aims of the project are achieved, how will scientific knowledge, technical capability, and/or clinical practice be improved? how will successful completion of the aims change the concepts, methods, technologies, treatments, services, or preventative interventions that drive this field?are the scientific rationale and need for a clinical trial to test the proposed hypothesis or intervention well supported by preliminary data, clinical and/or preclinical studies, or information in the literature or knowledge of biological mechanisms? for trials focusing on clinical or public health endpoints, is this clinical trial necessary for testing the safety, efficacy or effectiveness of an intervention that could lead to a change in clinical practice, community behaviors or health care policy? for trials focusing on mechanistic, behavioral, physiological, biochemical, or other biomedical endpoints, is this trial needed to advance scientific understanding?specific to this foais the program scientifically compelling as a whole? are the overall program goals significant and focused on studies that accelerate the discovery and translation from lab to clinic of therapies for autoimmune diseases?primary and alternate clinical projectsdo the proposed clinical projects address important clinical questions? are they likely to result in important clinical or fundamental knowledge? is there a clear statement of the question(s) that the trial and studies will address? is sufficient information provided to determine the significance and timeliness of, as well as the need to perform, the trial and studies? will the results of the mechanistic studies illuminate the mechanism of action or disease pathogenesis? if successful, will the proposed trials benefit health care or our understanding of autoimmunity? in the case of competitive interventions, are they thoroughly and fairly presented, including their clinical and economic advantages and disadvantages?collaborative projectdoes the collaborative project address an aspect of the center's theme? does the project seek to answer broader questions beyond the abilities of a single center? will the results of the mechanistic studies illuminate the mechanism of action or disease pathogenesis?investigator(s)are the pd(s)/pi(s), collaborators, and other researchers well suited to the project? if early stage investigators or those in the early stages of independent careers, do they have appropriate experience and training? if established, have they demonstrated an ongoing record of accomplishments that have advanced their field(s)? if the project is collaborative or multi-pd/pi, do the investigators have complementary and integrated expertise; are their leadership approach, governance, and organizational structure appropriate for the project?with regard to the proposed leadership for the project, do the pd/pi(s) and key personnel have the expertise, experience, and ability to organize, manage and implement the proposed clinical trial and meet milestones and timelines? do they have appropriate expertise in study coordination, data management and statistics? for a multicenter trial, is the organizational structure appropriate and does the application identify a core of potential center investigators and staffing for a coordinating center?specific to this foado the projects exploit the strengths of the applicant's expertise? for applications designating multiple pds/pis, is the leadership plan adequate and appropriate to ensure that there will be sufficient coordination and communication among the pds/pis? is the leadership succession plan adequate and feasible? have the applicants and collaborators made a significant impact on the field of autoimmune diseases? have the applicants and collaborators successfully developed and conducted collaborative research projects? do(es) the pd(s)/pi(s) have the leadership and scientific ability to develop an integrated and focused research program?primary and alternate clinical and collaborative projectsfor all potential site investigators, including the clinical project leader, are their professional training and experience appropriate? is the experience of the pd(s)/pi(s), clinical project leaders, and key personnel in directing clinical trials with integrated mechanistic studies adequate and appropriate?administrative coordinationis the staffing and administrative plan appropriate for the objectives of the proposed program? are the experience, level of commitment, and availability of the administrative coordination leader adequate to manage the overall program?innovationdoes the application challenge and seek to shift current research or clinical practice paradigms by utilizing novel theoretical concepts, approaches or methodologies, instrumentation, or interventions? are the concepts, approaches or methodologies, instrumentation, or interventions novel to one field of research or novel in a broad sense? is a refinement, improvement, or new application of theoretical concepts, approaches or methodologies, instrumentation, or interventions proposed?does the design/research plan include innovative elements, as appropriate, that enhance its sensitivity, potential for information or potential to advance scientific knowledge or clinical practice?specific to this foaprimary and alternate clinical projectsdoes the applicant propose innovative approaches to reach, recruit, and retain an inclusive and representative population of patients with autoimmune diseases necessary for ace program to have a significant impact for the community of the patients with autoimmune diseases? does the trial design incorporate a cutting-edge approach(es) to autoimmune diseases therapy or prevention?approachare the overall strategy, methodology, and analyses well-reasoned and appropriate to accomplish the specific aims of the project? have the investigators included plans to address weaknesses in the rigor of prior research that serves as the key support for the proposed project? have the investigators presented strategies to ensure a robust and unbiased approach, as appropriate for the work proposed? are potential problems, alternative strategies, and benchmarks for success presented? if the project is in the early stages of development, will the strategy establish feasibility and will particularly risky aspects be managed? have the investigators presented adequate plans to address relevant biological variables, such as sex, for studies in vertebrate animals or human subjects?if the project involves human subjects and/or nih-defined clinical research, are the plans to address 1) the protection of human subjects from research risks, and 2) inclusion (or exclusion) of individuals on the basis of sex/gender, race, and ethnicity, as well as the inclusion or exclusion of individuals of all ages (including children and older adults), justified in terms of the scientific goals and research strategy proposed?does the application adequately address the following, if applicablestudy designis the study design justified and appropriate to address primary and secondary outcome variable(s)/endpoints that will be clear, informative and relevant to the hypothesis being tested? is the scientific rationale/premise of the study based on previously well-designed preclinical and/or clinical research? given the methods used to assign participants and deliver interventions, is the study design adequately powered to answer the research question(s), test the proposed hypothesis/hypotheses, and provide interpretable results? is the trial appropriately designed to conduct the research efficiently? are the study populations (size, gender, age, demographic group), proposed intervention arms/dose, and duration of the trial, appropriate and well justified?are potential ethical issues adequately addressed? is the process for obtaining informed consent or assent appropriate? is the eligible population available? are the plans for recruitment outreach, enrollment, retention, handling dropouts, missed visits, and losses to follow-up appropriate to ensure robust data collection? are the planned recruitment timelines feasible and is the plan to monitor accrual adequate? has the need for randomization (or not), masking (if appropriate), controls, and inclusion/exclusion criteria been addressed? are differences addressed, if applicable, in the intervention effect due to sex/gender and race/ethnicity?are the plans to standardize, assure quality of, and monitor adherence to, the trial protocol and data collection or distribution guidelines appropriate? is there a plan to obtain required study agent(s)? does the application propose to use existing available resources, as applicable?data management and statistical analysisare planned analyses and statistical approach appropriate for the proposed study design and methods used to assign participants and deliver interventions? are the procedures for data management and quality control of data adequate at clinical site(s) or at center laboratories, as applicable? have the methods for standardization of procedures for data management to assess the effect of the intervention and quality control been addressed? is there a plan to complete data analysis within the proposed period of the award?specific to this foawill the integration of the individual projects into a single program be more beneficial than pursuing each project independently? does the application adequately address good clinical practices (gcp), good laboratory practices (glp), and good manufacturing practices (gmp) compliance if applicable?primary and alternate clinical projectsdo clinical projects developed by the applicant propose innovative and clear, testable hypotheses on underlying immune mechanisms? will outcomes of the studies inform our understanding of the intervention, disease, or fundamental immunology? are the proposed mechanistic studies insightful and well-integrated into the clinical trial? are the mechanistic studies hypothesis-driven? are the full clinical trial protocols, draft consent and, if applicable, draft assent forms appropriate?collaborative projectdoes the proposed collaborative project have a good probability of establishing useful, productive collaborative investigation?administrative coordinationare the plans for coordination, problem identification and resolution, and the establishment of a strong collaborative environment for the program appropriate? are the proposed timelines, milestones, and performance objectives for the administrative coordination group adequate? is the management plan for fiscal accountability and communication within the program appropriate?environmentwill the scientific environment in which the work will be done contribute to the probability of success? are the institutional support, equipment, and other physical resources available to the investigators adequate for the project proposed? will the project benefit from unique features of the scientific environment, subject populations, or collaborative arrangements?if proposed, are the administrative, data coordinating, enrollment and laboratory/testing centers, appropriate for the trial proposed?does the application adequately address the capability and ability to conduct the trial at the proposed site(s) or centers? are the plans to add or drop enrollment centers, as needed, appropriate?if international site(s) is/are proposed, does the application adequately address the complexity of executing the clinical trial?if multi-sites/centers, is there evidence of the ability of the individual site or center to: (1) enroll the proposed numbers; (2) adhere to the protocol; (3) collect and transmit data in an accurate and timely fashion; and, (4) operate within the proposed organizational structure?specific to this foaprimary and alternate clinical projectsare there adequate, available, and appropriate clinical facilities and ancillary facilities to provide the clinical care required to support the autoimmune clinical trials? is there evidence demonstrating strong past institutional performance in autoimmune diseases research? does the application describe a cohesive structure and range of support services to support autoimmune diseases trials and/or collaborative project research?additional review criteriaas applicable for the project proposed, reviewers will evaluate the following additional items while determining scientific and technical merit, and in providing an overall impact score, but will not give separate scores for these items.specific to this foaare the study timeline milestones feasible and well justified?ace funds management coordination (afmc)are the administrative structure and plans for staffing appropriate to manage the program funds? have adequate plans been made to receive, review, and implement budgets and execute consortium agreements? have adequate plans been made to receive, review, pay invoices, and report status to niaid in a timely manner? are the clinical trial budget and quarterly reporting templates appropriate?ace biorepository coordination (abc)are the administrative structure and plans for staffing appropriate to manage the program samples? are the plans to coordinate sample collection, storage, and provision of biological samples appropriate? did the applicant document their experience in successful biorepository management?study timelineis the study timeline described in detail, taking into account start-up activities, the anticipated rate of enrollment, and planned follow-up assessment? is the projected timeline feasible and well justified? does the project incorporate efficiencies and utilize existing resources (e.g., ctsas, practice-based research networks, electronic medical records, administrative database, or patient registries) to increase the efficiency of participant enrollment and data collection, as appropriate?are potential challenges and corresponding solutions discussed (e.g., strategies that can be implemented in the event of enrollment shortfalls)?protections for human subjectsfor research that involves human subjects but does not involve one of the categories of research that are exempt under 45 cfr part 46, the committee will evaluate the justification for involvement of human subjects and the proposed protections from research risk relating to their participation according to the following five review criteria: 1) risk to subjects, 2) adequacy of protection against risks, 3) potential benefits to the subjects and others, 4) importance of the knowledge to be gained, and 5) data and safety monitoring for clinical trials.for research that involves human subjects and meets the criteria for one or more of the categories of research that are exempt under 45 cfr part 46, the committee will evaluate: 1) the justification for the exemption, 2) human subjects involvement and characteristics, and 3) sources of materials. for additional information on review of the human subjects section, please refer to the guidelines for the review of human subjects.inclusion of women, minorities, and individuals across the lifespanwhen the proposed project involves human subjects and/or nih-defined clinical research, the committee will evaluate the proposed plans for the inclusion (or exclusion) of individuals on the basis of sex/gender, race, and ethnicity, as well as the inclusion (or exclusion) of individuals of all ages (including children and older adults) to determine if it is justified in terms of the scientific goals and research strategy proposed. for additional information on review of the inclusion section, please refer to the guidelines for the review of inclusion in clinical research.vertebrate animalsthe committee will evaluate the involvement of live vertebrate animals as part of the scientific assessment according to the following criteria: (1) description of proposed procedures involving animals, including species, strains, ages, sex, and total number to be used; (2) justifications for the use of animals versus alternative models and for the appropriateness of the species proposed; (3) interventions to minimize discomfort, distress, pain and injury; and (4) justification for euthanasia method if not consistent with the avma guidelines for the euthanasia of animals. reviewers will assess the use of chimpanzees as they would any other application proposing the use of vertebrate animals. for additional information on review of the vertebrate animals section, please refer to the worksheet for review of the vertebrate animal section.biohazardsreviewers will assess whether materials or procedures proposed are potentially hazardous to research personnel and/or the environment, and if needed, determine whether adequate protection is proposed.resubmissionsnot applicablerenewalsfor renewals, the committee will consider the progress made in the last funding period.revisionsnot applicableas applicable for the project proposed, reviewers will consider each of the following items, but will not give scores for these items, and should not consider them in providing an overall impact score.applications from foreign organizationsnot applicable.select agent researchreviewers will assess the information provided in this section of the application, including 1) the select agent(s) to be used in the proposed research, 2) the registration status of all entities where select agent(s) will be used, 3) the procedures that will be used to monitor possession use and transfer of select agent(s), and 4) plans for appropriate biosafety, biocontainment, and security of the select agent(s).resource sharing plansnote: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023, the data sharing plan and genomic data sharing plan (gds) will not be evaluated at time of review.reviewers will comment on whether the resource sharing plan(s) (i.e., sharing model organisms) or the rationale for not sharing the resources, is reasonable.authentication of key biological and/or chemical resources:for projects involving key biological and/or chemical resources, reviewers will comment on the brief plans proposed for identifying and ensuring the validity of those resources.budget and period of supportreviewers will consider whether the budget and the requested period of support are fully justified and reasonable in relation to the proposed research.2. review and selection processapplications will be evaluated for scientific and technical merit by (an) appropriate scientific review group(s) convened by convened by the national institute of allergy and infectious diseases, in accordance with nih peer review policy and procedures, using the stated review criteria. assignment to a scientific review group will be shown in the era commons.as part of the scientific peer review, all applications will receive a written critique.applications may undergo a selection process in which only those applications deemed to have the highest scientific and technical merit (generally the top half of applications under review) will be discussed and assigned an overall impact score.appeals of initial peer review will not be accepted for applications submitted in response to this foa.applications will be assigned to the appropriate nih institute or center. applications will compete for available funds with all other recommended applications submitted in response to this foa. following initial peer review, recommended applications will receive a second level of review by the national advisory allergy and infectious diseases council. the following will be considered in making funding decisions:3. anticipated announcement and award datesafter the peer review of the application is completed, the pd/pi will be able to access his or her summary statement (written critique) via the era commons. refer to part 1 for dates for peer review, advisory council review, and earliest start date.information regarding the disposition of applications is available in the nih grants policy statement.1. award noticesif the application is under consideration for funding, nih will request "just-in-time" information from the applicant as described in the nih grants policy statement.a formal notification in the form of a notice of award (noa) will be provided to the applicant organization for successful applications. the noa signed by the grants management officer is the authorizing document and will be sent via email to the recipient's business official.recipients must comply with any funding restrictions described in section iv.5. funding restrictions. selection of an application for award is not an authorization to begin performance. any costs incurred before receipt of the noa are at the recipient's risk. these costs may be reimbursed only to the extent considered allowable pre-award costs.any application awarded in response to this foa will be subject to terms and conditions found on the award conditions and information for nih grants website. this includes any recent legislation and policy applicable to awards that is highlighted on this website.individual awards are based on the application submitted to, and as approved by, the nih and are subject to the ic-specific terms and conditions identified in the noa.clinicaltrials.gov: if an award provides for one or more clinical trials. by law (title viii, section 801 of public law 110-85), the "responsible party" must register and submit results information for certain “applicable clinical trials” on the clinicaltrials.gov protocol registration and results system information website (https://register.clinicaltrials.gov). nih expects registration and results reporting of all trials whether required under the law or not. for more information, see https://grants.nih.gov/policy/clinical-trials/reporting/index.htminstitutional review board or independent ethics committee approval: recipient institutions must ensure that all protocols are reviewed by their irb or iec. to help ensure the safety of participants enrolled in nih-funded studies, the recipient must provide nih copies of documents related to all major changes in the status of ongoing protocols.data and safety monitoring requirements: the nih policy for data and safety monitoring requires oversight and monitoring of all nih-conducted or -supported human biomedical and behavioral intervention studies (clinical trials) to ensure the safety of participants and the validity and integrity of the data. further information concerning these requirements is found at http://grants.nih.gov/grants/policy/hs/data_safety.htm and in the application instructions (sf424 (r&r) and phs 398).investigational new drug or investigational device exemption requirements: consistent with federal regulations, clinical research projects involving the use of investigational therapeutics, vaccines, or other medical interventions (including licensed products and devices for a purpose other than that for which they were licensed) in humans under a research protocol must be performed under a food and drug administration (fda) investigational new drug (ind) or investigational device exemption (ide).2. administrative and national policy requirementsall nih grant and cooperative agreement awards include the nih grants policy statement as part of the noa. for these terms of award, see the nih grants policy statement part ii: terms and conditions of nih grant awards, subpart a: general and part ii: terms and conditions of nih grant awards, subpart b: terms and conditions for specific types of grants, recipients, and activities, including of note, but not limited to:if a recipient is successful and receives a notice of award, in accepting the award, the recipient agrees that any activities under the award are subject to all provisions currently in effect or implemented during the period of the award, other department regulations and policies in effect at the time of the award, and applicable statutory provisions.should the applicant organization successfully compete for an award, recipients of federal financial assistance (ffa) from hhs will be required to complete an hhs assurance of compliance form (hhs 690) in which the recipient agrees, as a term and condition of receiving the grant, to administer their programs in compliance with federal civil rights laws that prohibit discrimination on the basis of race, color, national origin, age, sex and disability, and agreeing to comply with federal conscience laws, where applicable. this includes ensuring that entities take meaningful steps to provide meaningful access to persons with limited english proficiency; and ensuring effective communication with persons with disabilities. where applicable, title xi and section 1557 prohibit discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation, and gender identity. the hhs office for civil rights provides guidance on complying with civil rights laws enforced by hhs. please see https://www.hhs.gov/civil-rights/for-providers/provider-obligations/index.html and https://www.hhs.gov/civil-rights/for-individuals/nondiscrimination/index.htmlhhs recognizes that research projects are often limited in scope for many reasons that are nondiscriminatory, such as the principal investigator’s scientific interest, funding limitations, recruitment requirements, and other considerations. thus, criteria in research protocols that target or exclude certain populations are warranted where nondiscriminatory justifications establish that such criteria are appropriate with respect to the health or safety of the subjects, the scientific study design, or the purpose of the research. for additional guidance regarding how the provisions apply to nih grant programs, please contact the scientific/research contact that is identified in section vii under agency contacts of this foa.please contact the hhs office for civil rights for more information about obligations and prohibitions under federal civil rights laws at https://www.hhs.gov/ocr/about-us/contact-us/index.html or call 1-800-368-1019 or tdd 1-800-537-7697.in accordance with the statutory provisions contained in section 872 of the duncan hunter national defense authorization act of fiscal year 2009 (public law 110-417), nih awards will be subject to the federal awardee performance and integrity information system (fapiis) requirements. fapiis requires federal award making officials to review and consider information about an applicant in the designated integrity and performance system (currently fapiis) prior to making an award. an applicant, at its option, may review information in the designated integrity and performance systems accessible through fapiis and comment on any information about itself that a federal agency previously entered and is currently in fapiis. the federal awarding agency will consider any comments by the applicant, in addition to other information in fapiis, in making a judgement about the applicant’s integrity, business ethics, and record of performance under federal awards when completing the review of risk posed by applicants as described in 45 cfr part 75.205 and 2 cfr part 200.206 “federal awarding agency review of risk posed by applicants.” this provision will apply to all nih grants and cooperative agreements except fellowships.the following special terms of award are in addition to, and not in lieu of, otherwise applicable u.s. office of management and budget (omb) administrative guidelines, u.s. department of health and human services (dhhs) grant administration regulations at 45 cfr part 75, and other hhs, phs, and nih grant administration policies. the administrative and funding instrument used for this program will be the cooperative agreement, an "assistance" mechanism (rather than an "acquisition" mechanism), in which substantial nih programmatic involvement with the recipients is anticipated during the performance of the activities. under the cooperative agreement, the nih purpose is to support and stimulate the recipients' activities by involvement in and otherwise working jointly with the award recipients in a partnership role; it is not to assume direction, prime responsibility, or a dominant role in the activities. consistent with this concept, the dominant role and prime responsibility resides with the recipients for the project as a whole, although specific tasks and activities may be shared among the recipients and the nih as defined below.the pd(s)/pi(s) will have primary responsibility for:nih staff have substantial programmatic involvement that is above and beyond the normal stewardship role in awards, as described below:trial sponsorship. niaid staff will have the option to independently file an ind on investigational agents or an ide on investigational devices evaluated in niaid-supported clinical studies. niaid will advise the investigators on the specific regulatory requirements for ind sponsorship. in situations where niaid is the ind sponsor, niaid through its contractors will also assemble, review, and submit the required regulatory documents to the fda. when holding an ind or ide, niaid has responsibility for the reporting of safety information in accordance with fda requirements and preferences. in order to provide for consistent reporting of serious adverse experiences across the niaid-supported clinical trial networks, niaid will provide current policies and procedures that govern the reporting of adverse events in niaid-supported trials. final disposition of serious adverse event (sae) reports will be decided by niaid staff for all ind studies held by niaid.trial monitoring. niaid staff will oversee clinical site monitoring that evaluates gcp, regulatory compliance, protocol implementation, internal quality assurance, and test article accountability at the network clinical sites. the site monitors, with or without accompanying niaid staff, will visit ace clinical sites periodically to review selected protocols, provide training on general protocol conduct, review internal qa/qc plans, and audit pharmacies.protocol review. niaid staff will review all protocols and approval is required for initiation. the program scientist or designee will return comments and recommendations to the ace protocol team after review.safety monitoring. niaid staff will participate in the development of appropriate safety monitoring plans for all planned clinical trials and must approve the plan for all trials involving investigational drugs, devices, biologics, or other clinical interventions. the frequency and intensity of safety monitoring will be based on individual study characteristics and past experience with study products and may require review by an independent safety monitor, safety monitoring committee (smc) or data and safety monitoring board (dsmb). niaid medical monitors will be part of the organized protocol safety review teams to monitor the safety and efficacy of the intervention(s) for ongoing studies and will be provided with appropriate reports. approval of the final monitoring plan, including the composition of the review committee, by niaid is required prior to study initiation. niaid independently supports data and safety monitoring boards (dsmb) that oversee clinical trials at the discretion of niaid.clinical study termination. niaid staff reserves the right to terminate or curtail a clinical study for any reason. examples include, but are not limited to, risks to subject safety, failure to achieve recruitment goals, and reaching a major study endpoint substantially before schedule with persuasive statistical significance.clinical data access. niaid has the right of access to all clinical data generated (raw and analyzed) and may periodically review it. this includes data as recorded on the case report forms and in the central databases, and external checking against the original source documentation as required by federal regulation and niaid as the ind sponsor. niaid staff may request from ace protocol teams specific data analysis needed for programmatic activities or for issues related to niaid plans with other partners.clinical sample access. in conjunction with the abc, niaid staff will facilitate and help coordinate collection, storage, and provision of clinical samples for subsequent studies.areas of joint responsibilities include:steering committeea steering committee will serve as the coordinating body for the ace research program and will consist of a single pd/pi from each ace clinical and basic program recipient and representatives from the ad-sccc and from niaid. it will be chaired by a pd/pi chosen by a majority vote of the steering committee, with terms determined by the committee. each member of the steering committee will have one vote. the ad-sccc representative and niaid project scientist will be voting members but will not serve as the chair of the steering committee. nih staff with voting rights on the steering committee will collectively have one vote as permitted. all participants in the ace program are bound by the policies and procedures developed by the steering committee.the steering committee responsibilities include:protocol review. niaid staff will review all protocols and approval is required for initiation. the program scientist or designee will return comments and recommendations to the ace protocol team after review. the protocol team must address in writing all safety, regulatory, ethical, and conflict of interest concerns raised by niaid to the satisfaction of niaid before participant enrollment can begin. if a protocol is disapproved, niaid will not provide investigational products or permit expenditure of nih funds for the proposed investigation. if a protocol is not initiated within twelve months of niaid approval, re-review and approval by niaid will be required.dispute resolutionany disagreements that may arise in scientific or programmatic matters (within the scope of the award) between award recipients and the nih may be brought to arbitration. an arbitration panel composed of three members will be convened. the members shall be: (1) one designee of the steering committee chosen without nih staff voting, (2) one nih designee, and (3) one designee with expertise in the relevant area who is chosen by the other two members. in the case of individual disagreement, the first member may be chosen by the individual recipient. this special arbitration procedure in no way affects the recipient's right to appeal an adverse action that is otherwise appealable in accordance with phs regulations 42 cfr part 50, subpart d and hhs regulations 45 cfr part 16.3. data management and sharingnote: the nih policy for data management and sharing is effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023.consistent with the nih policy for data management and sharing, when data management and sharing is applicable to the award, recipients will be required to adhere to the data management and sharing requirements as outlined in the nih grants policy statement. upon the approval of a data management and sharing plan, it is required for recipients to implement the plan as described.4. reportingwhen multiple years are involved, recipients will be required to submit the research performance progress report (rppr) annually and financial statements as required in the nih grants policy statement.a final rppr, invention statement, and the expenditure data portion of the federal financial report are required for closeout of an award, as described in the nih grants policy statement. nih foas outline intended research goals and objectives. post award, nih will review and measure performance based on the details and outcomes that are shared within the rppr, as described at 45 cfr part 75.301 and 2 cfr part 200.301.the federal funding accountability and transparency act of 2006 (transparency act), includes a requirement for recipients of federal grants to report information about first-tier subawards and executive compensation under federal assistance awards issued in fy2011 or later. all recipients of applicable nih grants and cooperative agreements are required to report to the federal subaward reporting system (fsrs) available at www.fsrs.gov on all subawards over $25,000. see the nih grants policy statement for additional information on this reporting requirement.in accordance with the regulatory requirements provided at 45 cfr 75.113 and appendix xii to 45 cfr part 75, recipients that have currently active federal grants, cooperative agreements, and procurement contracts from all federal awarding agencies with a cumulative total value greater than $10,000,000 for any period of time during the period of performance of a federal award, must report and maintain the currency of information reported in the system for award management (sam) about civil, criminal, and administrative proceedings in connection with the award or performance of a federal award that reached final disposition within the most recent five-year period. the recipient must also make semiannual disclosures regarding such proceedings. proceedings information will be made publicly available in the designated integrity and performance system (currently fapiis). this is a statutory requirement under section 872 of public law 110-417, as amended (41 u.s.c. 2313). as required by section 3010 of public law 111-212, all information posted in the designated integrity and performance system on or after april 15, 2011, except past performance reviews required for federal procurement contracts, will be publicly available. full reporting requirements and procedures are found in appendix xii to 45 cfr part 75 – award term and conditions for recipient integrity and performance matters.we encourage inquiries concerning this funding opportunity and welcome the opportunity to answer questions from potential applicants.era service desk (questions regarding assist, era commons, application errors and warnings, documenting system problems that threaten submission by the due date, and post-submission issues)finding help online: https://www.era.nih.gov/need-help (preferred method of contact) telephone: 301-402-7469 or 866-504-9552 (toll free)general grants information (questions regarding application instructions, application processes, and nih grant resources) email: grantsinfo@nih.gov (preferred method of contact) telephone: 301-637-3015grants.gov customer support (questions regarding grants.gov registration and workspace) contact center telephone: 800-518-4726 email: support@grants.govstacy e. ferguson, ph.d. national institute of allergy and infectious diseases (niaid) telephone: 240-627-3504 email: fergusonst@niaid.nih.govkelly l hudspeth, ph.d. national institute of allergy and infectious diseases (niaid) telephone: 240-215-5441 email: kelly.hudspeth@nih.govtiffany johnson national institute of allergy and infectious diseases (niaid) telephone: 240-627-3563 email: tiffany.johnson2@nih.govrecently issued trans-nih policy notices may affect your application submission. a full list of policy notices published by nih is provided in the nih guide for grants and contracts. all awards are subject to the terms and conditions, cost principles, and other considerations described in the nih grants policy statement.awards are made under the authorization of sections 301 and 405 of the public health service act as amended (42 usc 241 and 284) and under federal regulations 42 cfr part 52 and 45 cfr part 75.weekly toc for this announcement nih funding opportunities and noticesnote: for help accessing pdf, rtf, ms word, excel, powerpoint, audio or video files, see help downloading files.