New Investigators to Promote Workforce Diversity in Genomics, Bioinformatics, or Bioengineering and Biomedical Imaging Research (R01 Clinical Trial Optional)
https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/rfa-files/RFA-HG-21-041.html
national institutes of health (nih)national human genome research institute (nhgri) national institute of biomedical imaging and bioengineering (nibib)all applications to this funding opportunity announcement should fall within the mission of the institutes/centers. the following nih offices may co-fund applications assigned to those institutes/centers.all of us research program (all of us), office the director (od)new investigators to promote workforce diversity in genomics, bioinformatics, or bioengineering and biomedical imaging research (r01 clinical trial optional)r01 research project grantnewsee notices of special interest associated with this funding opportunityrfa-hg-21-041nonesee section iii. 3. additional information on eligibility.93.172, 93.286, 93.368this funding opportunity announcement (foa) solicits r01 grant applications that propose independent research projects that are within the scientific mission areas of the national human genome research institute (nhgri), national institute of biomedical imaging and bioengineering (nibib), and all of us research program (all of us). this program is intended to support early stage investigators and new investigators from diverse backgrounds, including those from groups underrepresented in the health-related sciences.august 5, 2021january 22, 202230 days prior to the application due datefebruary 22, 2022; february 22, 2023; february 22, 2024all applications are due by 5:00 pm local time of applicant organization. all types of non-aids applications allowed for this funding opportunity announcement are due on the listed date(s)applicants are encouraged to apply early to allow adequate time to make any corrections to errors found in the application during the submission process by the due date.not applicablestandard dates applystandard dates applystandard dates applyfebruary 23, 2024not applicableit is critical that applicants follow the research (r) instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, except where instructed to do otherwise (in this foa or in a notice from the nih guide for grants and contracts). conformance to all requirements (both in the application guide and the foa) is required and strictly enforced. applicants must read and follow all application instructions in the application guide as well as any program-specific instructions noted in section iv. when the program-specific instructions deviate from those in the application guide, follow the program-specific instructions. applications that do not comply with these instructions may be delayed or not accepted for review.there are several options available to submit your application through grants.gov to nih and department of health and human services partners. you must use one of these submission options to access the application forms for this opportunity.part 1. overview information part 2. full text of the announcementsection i. funding opportunity description section ii. award information section iii. eligibility information section iv. application and submission information section v. application review information section vi. award administration information section vii. agency contacts section viii. other informationthe national institutes of health (nih) recognizes the need to diversify the scientific workforce by enhancing the participation of individuals from diverse backgrounds, including those from groups identified as underrepresented (https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/notice-files/not-od-20-031.html) in the biomedical, clinical, behavioral and social sciences research workforce.diversity at all levels — from the kinds of science to the regions in which it is conducted to the backgrounds of the people conducting it — contributes to excellence in research training environments and strengthens the research enterprise.need for the programthe nih recognizes a unique and compelling need to promote diversity in the biomedical, behavioral, clinical and social sciences workforce. the nih expects efforts to diversify the workforce to lead to the recruitment of the most talented researchers from all groups; to improve the quality of the educational and training environment; to balance and broaden the perspective in setting research priorities; to improve the ability to recruit subjects from minority and other health disparity populations into clinical research protocols; and to improve the nation's capacity to address and eliminate health disparities. for more information, see notice of nih's interest in diversity, not-od20-031 (https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/notice-files/not-od-20-031.html).diversity statementevery facet of the united states scientific research enterprise—from basic laboratory research to clinical and translational research to policy formation–requires superior intellect, creativity and a wide range of skill sets and viewpoints. nih’s ability to help ensure that the nation remains a global leader in scientific discovery and innovation is dependent upon a pool of highly talented scientists from diverse backgrounds who will help to further the nih mission.research shows that diverse teams working together and capitalizing on innovative ideas and distinct perspectives outperform homogenous teams. scientists and trainees from diverse backgrounds and life experiences bring different perspectives, creativity, and individual enterprise to address complex scientific problems. there are many benefits that flow from a diverse nih-supported scientific workforce, including: fostering scientific innovation, enhancing global competitiveness, contributing to robust learning environments, improving the quality of the research, advancing the likelihood that underserved or health disparity populations participate in, and benefit from health research, and enhancing public trust.examples of underrepresented populations in the u.s. biomedical, clinical, behavioral and social sciences research enterprisein spite of tremendous advancements in scientific research, information, educational and research opportunities are not equally available to all. nih encourages institutions to diversify their student and faculty populations to enhance the participation of individuals from groups that are underrepresented in the biomedical, clinical, behavioral and social sciences, such as:a. individuals from racial and ethnic groups that have been shown by the national science foundation to be underrepresented in health-related sciences on a national basis(see data at http://www.nsf.gov/statistics/showpub.cfm?topid=2&subid=27 (http://www.nsf.gov/statistics/showpub.cfm?topid=2&subid=27)) and the report women, minorities, and persons with disabilities in science and engineering (http://www.nsf.gov/statistics/women/)). the following racial and ethnic groups have been shown to be underrepresented in biomedical research: blacks or african americans, hispanics or latinos, american indians or alaska natives, native hawaiians and other pacific islanders. in addition, it is recognized that underrepresentation can vary from setting to setting; individuals from racial or ethnic groups that can be demonstrated convincingly to be underrepresented by the grantee institution should be encouraged to participate in this opportunity. for more information on racial and ethnic categories and definitions, see the omb revisions to the standards for classification of federal data on race and ethnicity (https://www.govinfo.gov/content/pkg/fr-1997-1030/html/97-28653.htm ).b. individuals with disabilities, who are defined as those with a physical or mental impairment that substantially limits one or more major life activities, as described in the americans with disabilities act of 1990, as amended (http://www.ada.gov/pubs/adastatute08.htm). see nsf data at, https://www.nsf.gov/statistics/2017/nsf17310/static/data/tab7-5.pdf .c. individuals from disadvantaged backgrounds, defined as those who meet two or more of the following criteria:1. were or currently are homeless, as defined by the mckinney-vento homeless assistance act (definition: https://nche.ed.gov/mckinney-vento/ (https://nche.ed.gov/mckinney-vento/));2. were or currently are in the foster care system, as defined by the administration for children and families (definition: https://www.acf.hhs.gov/cb/focus-areas/fostercare 3. were eligible for the federal free and reduced lunch program for two or more years (definition: https://www.fns.usda.gov/school-meals/income-eligibility-guidelines );4. have/had no parents or legal guardians who completed a bachelor’s degree (see https://nces.ed.gov/pubs2018/2018009.pdf );5. were or currently are eligible for federal pell grants (definition: https://www2.ed.gov/programs/fpg/eligibility.html );6. received support from the special supplemental nutrition program for women, infants and children (wic) as a parent or child(definition: https://www.fns.usda.gov/wic/wic-eligibility-requirements ).7. grew up in one of the following areas: a) a u.s. rural area, as designated by the health resources and services administration (hrsa) rural health grants eligibility analyzer (https://data.hrsa.gov/tools/rural-health ), or b) a centers for medicare and medicaid services-designated low-income and health professional shortage areas (https://www.qhpcertification.cms.gov/s/lowincomeandhpsazipcodelistingpy2020.xlsx?v=1) (qualifying zip codes are included in the file). only one of the two possibilities in #7 can be used as a criterion for the disadvantaged background definition.d. literature shows that women from the above backgrounds (categories a, b, and c) face particular challenges at the graduate level and beyond in scientific fields. (see,e.g., from the nih: a systems approach to increasing the diversity of biomedical research workforce https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/pmc5008902/ women have been shown to be underrepresented in doctorate-granting research institutions at senior faculty levels in most biomedical-relevant disciplines, and may also be underrepresented at other faculty levels in some scientific disciplines (see data from the national science foundation national center for science and engineeringstatistics: women, minorities, and persons with disabilities in science and engineering, special report available at https://www.nsf.gov/statistics/2017/nsf17310/ , especially table 9-23, describing science, engineering, and health doctorate holders employed in universities and 4-year colleges, by broad occupation, sex, years since doctorate, and faculty rank).upon review of nsf data, and scientific discipline or field related data, nih encourages institutions to consider women for faculty-level, diversity-targeted programs to address faculty recruitment, appointment, retention or advancement.proposed scope and objectives:section 404m of the public health service act (added by section 2021 in title ii, subtitle c, of the 21st century cures act, p.l. 114-255, enacted december 13, 2016), entitled, “investing in the next generation of researchers,” established the next generation of researchers initiative within the office of the nih director. this initiative is intended to promote and provide opportunities for new researchers and earlier research independence. in particular, subsection (b) requires the director to “develop, modify, or prioritize policies, as needed, within the national institutes of health to promote opportunities for new researchers and earlier research independence, such as policies to increase opportunities for new researchers to receive funding, enhance training and mentorship programs for researchers, and enhance workforce diversity; and subsection (c) requires the director to “carry out other activities...as appropriate, to promote the development of the next generation of researchers and earlier research independence.” see, the nih policy supporting the next generation researchers initiative (not-od-17-101). the objective of this program is consistent with the provisions of the 21st century cures act and will support research from early stage investigators from diverse backgrounds, including investigators from underrepresented racial and ethnic groups, in order to enhance the diversity of r01 funded investigators.specific areas of research interest:nhgri:relevancethere are many benefits to fostering a diverse workforce, for example promoting diversity of scientific ideas, understanding different perspectives from researchers, and maintaining cultures of inclusive excellence in the genomic research community. enhancing the diversity of individuals participating as investigators in genomics research, may also help address the urgent need for enhanced diversity among those applying genomics in clinical care. the 2020 nhgri strategic vision (pmid: 33116284 (https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33116284/)) lists “champion a diverse workforce” as one of the guiding principles/values for human genomics. to pursue this, the nhgri recently published its action agenda for building a diverse genomics workforce (bonham, green, 2021 (https://www.cell.com/ajhg/fulltext/s0002-9297(20)30449-3) ajhg), the result of an intensive year-long task force effort to develop a workforce diversity strategic plan and produce initiatives needed to enhance diversity, including addressing groups nationally underrepresented in the genomics research workforce. this initiative is part of that emerging portfolio of initiatives and is intended to address the third strategic goal of that action agenda, to develop and support research transition programs to independent genomic research careers.nhgri’s average proportion of awards supporting urm investigators for r01 and r01 equivalent grants was lower than the average proportion of nih awards overall supporting urms. this glaring underrepresentation in nhgri’s r01 portfolio calls for urgent attention to invite and promote greater diversity in the genomics workforce, particularly given the critical need for improved understanding and application of the genomics of non-european ancestry populations. our goal is to work to achieve equity in the workforce and provide opportunities for researchers from diverse backgrounds, including those from groups nationally underrepresented in the genomics workforce.nhgri is currently signed on to par-19-222 (https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/pa-files/par-19-222.html) . this par offers r21 support to meritorious applications supporting individuals from diverse backgrounds, including those from underrepresented racial and ethnic groups in biomedical and behavioral research, and 2) who have not received significant research support. this rfa-hg-21-041 complements par-19-222 (https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/pa-files/par-19-222.html) and has the purpose of providing r01 support to researchers from diverse backgrounds, including those from groups underrepresented in the biomedical sciences.applicants to nhgri may propose any research topic suitable for an r01 within the nhgri mission (https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33116284/), as described on thenhgri website for the division of genome sciences (https://www.genome.gov/about-nhgri/division-of-genome-sciences), the division of genomic medicine(https://www.genome.gov/about-nhgri/division-of-genomic-medicine), and the ethical, legal and social implications research program (https://www.genome.gov/fundedprograms-projects/elsi-research-program-ethical-legal-social-implications).all of us:the all of us research program hopes to foster diversity in the workforce and provide opportunities for researchers from diverse backgrounds, including those from groups nationally underrepresented in the genomics and bioinformatics workforce. this includes the development and integration of genomics, observational and clinical data, and bioinformatics technologies aimed at advancing precision medicine. to be relevant to all of us, applications should use the all of us data sets alone or in combinations with other resources or create technologies or algorithms that would be directly relevant and/or applied within all of us. an application is not within the all of us mission if its principal focus is the development of a technology with the goal of understanding basic biological function or pathological mechanisms. additionally, all of us will support projects developing platform technologies that are applicable to a broad spectrum of disorders and diseases.for using the all of us researcher workbench, researchers register and apply (https://www.researchallofus.org/apply/) for access to the researcher workbench to analyze data. once registered, researchers can create research projects using collaborative workspaces, cohort-building tools, interactive notebooks, and more. currently, researchers must complete the all of us research program data access process to access the researcher workbench and registered tier data. the program anticipates the release of a controlled tier of data which includes more granular data on participants as well as whole genome sequence and genotyping data by the end of calendar year 2021.nhgri and all of us data collection and resource sharing plan:consent expectationsnhgri expects that all human data generated by this nhgri-funded research project will be derived from specimens or cell lines for which explicit consent for future research use and broad data sharing can be documented (not-hg-20-011 (https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/notice-files/not-hg-20-011.html)). nhgri also strongly encourages studies involving the generation of human data to use specimens with the broadest types of participant consent for data sharing and use, such as general research use (gru) or health/medical/biomedical (hmb) if data will be made available through a controlled-access environment, or unrestricted (open) access. consent language for this foa should avoid restrictions on the types of users who may access the data.nhgri recognizes that in some cases there are compelling scientific reasons for using human specimens or cell lines that lack explicit consent for future research use and broad data sharing. research proposing to use samples lacking such consent should be accompanied by a justification in the resource sharing plan of the grant application. individual participants who do not consent to future use or broad data sharing may still participate in the primary study, if consistent with study design.data from new research participantsconsent language for this foa should avoid restrictions on the types of users who may access the data. furthermore, individual participants who do not consent to future use or broad data sharing may still participate in the primary study, if consistent with study design. nhgri acknowledges that this will not always be possible or appropriate.additional guidance on informed consent can be found in the nhgri informed consent resource.metadata and phenotypic dataper not-hg-21-022 (https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/notice-files/not-hg-21-022.html), nhgri expects applications awarded under this foa to share comprehensive metadata and phenotypic data associated with the study, use standardized data collection protocols and survey instruments for capturing data, as appropriate, and use standardized notation for metadata (e.g., controlled vocabularies or ontologies) to enable the harmonization of datasets for secondary research analyses.for more information on nhgri’s genomic data sharing expectations, see the nhgri’s genomic data sharing policy faqs (https://www.genome.gov/about-nhgri/policiesguidance/genomic-data-sharing/frequently-asked-questions/metadata-phenotypic-data-sharing) webpage.nibib:applicants to nibib may propose any research topic suitable for an r01 within the nibib mission as described under the scientific program areas at https://www.nibib.nih.gov/research-funding .nibib interests include the development and integration of advanced bioengineering, sensing, imaging, and computational technologies for the improvement of human health and medical care. an application is not within the nibib mission if its principal focus is the development of a technology with the goal of understanding basic biological function or pathological mechanisms. additionally, nibib only supports projects developing platform technologies that are applicable to a broad spectrum of disorders and diseases. however, applicants may propose research that utilizes only a single tissue, organ, or physiological condition as a model system to facilitate the development of what is expected to be a more broadly applicable enabling technology. potential applicants are encouraged to contact the appropriate program director in their scientific program area of interest (https://www.nibib.nih.gov/research-funding ) to determine if their research fits within the nibib mission.for applications proposing clinical trials, nibib funding of clinical trials will be in accordance with not-eb-21-005 (//grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/notice-files/not-eb-20-028.html)"nibib guidance for support of clinical trial applications." briefly, nibib will only support mission-focused (see nibib's program areas(https://www.nibib.nih.gov/research-funding)) early-stage clinical trial applications, i.e., feasibility, phase i, first-in-human, safety, or other small clinical trials, that inform early stage technology development. nibib will not support applications proposing pivotal, phase ii, iii, iv, or trials in which the primary outcome is efficacy, effectiveness, or a post-market concern. also, mechanistic trials are not supported unless the primary focus of the project is on technology development.see section viii. other information for award authorities and regulations.grant: a support mechanism providing money, property, or both to an eligible entity to carry out an approved project or activity.new resubmissionthe oer glossary and the sf424 (r&r) application guide provide details on these application types. only those application types listed here are allowed for this foa.optional: accepting applications that either propose or do not propose clinical trial(s)need help determining whether you are doing a clinical trial?the number of awards is contingent upon nih appropriations and the submission of a sufficient number of meritorious applications.nhgri intends to fund an estimate of 5-7 awards, corresponding to a total of $5,250,000 for fiscal year 2022. future year amounts will depend on annual appropriations.nibib intends to fund up to 2 awards, corresponding to a total of up to $1.6m for fiscal year 2022. future year amounts will depend on annual appropriations.all of us intends to fund up to 3 awards for a total of $2.3m for fiscal year 2022. future year amounts will depend on annual appropriations.application budgets are allowed up to $500k direct costs per year. budgets should reflect the actual needs of the proposed project.up to 5 yearsnih grants policies as described in the nih grants policy statement will apply to the applications submitted and awards made from this foa.higher education institutionsthe following types of higher education institutions are always encouraged to apply for nih support as public or private institutions of higher education:o hispanic-serving institutionso historically black colleges and universities (hbcus)o tribally controlled colleges and universities (tccus)o alaska native and native hawaiian serving institutionso asian american native american pacific islander serving institutions (aanapisis)nonprofits other than institutions of higher educationfor-profit organizationsgovernmentsothernon-domestic (non-u.s.) entities (foreign institutions) are not eligible to apply. non-domestic (non-u.s.) components of u.s. organizations are not eligible to apply. foreign components, as defined in the nih grants policy statement, are allowed.applicant organizationsapplicant organizations must complete and maintain the following registrations as described in the sf 424 (r&r) application guide to be eligible to apply for or receive an award. all registrations must be completed prior to the application being submitted. registration can take 6 weeks or more, so applicants should begin the registration process as soon as possible. the nih policy on late submission of grant applications states that failure to complete registrations in advance of a due date is not a valid reason for a late submission.program directors/principal investigators (pd(s)/pi(s))all pd(s)/pi(s) must have an era commons account. pd(s)/pi(s) should work with their organizational officials to either create a new account or to affiliate their existing account with the applicant organization in era commons. if the pd/pi is also the organizational signing official, they must have two distinct era commons accounts, one for each role. obtaining an era commons account can take up to 2 weeks.any individual(s) with the skills, knowledge, and resources necessary to carry out the proposed research as the program director(s)/principal investigator(s) (pd(s)/pi(s)) is invited to work with his/her organization to develop an application for support. individuals from underrepresented racial and ethnic groups as well as individuals with disabilities are always encouraged to apply for nih support.for institutions/organizations proposing multiple pds/pis, visit the multiple program director/principal investigator policy and submission details in the senior/key person profile (expanded) component of the sf424 (r&r) application guide.individuals applying as the pd/pi must meet each eligibility criterion below. for a multiple pds/pis application, all of the individuals serving as pds/pis are required to meet all of the same eligibility criteria as for a single pd/pi application.a. new investigatorsfor the purpose of this foa, an investigator is considered a new investigator (https://grants.nih.gov/policy/early-investigators/index.htm) if he/she has not competed successfully for substantial, nih independent funding from nih. pd/pi of nih training-related and mentored career awards are eligible for this foa if the nih awards are in any of the following categories: fellowships (f awards), individual or institutional career awards (k awards), loan repayment contracts (l30, l32, l40, l50, l60), and all training grants (t32, t34, t35, t90, d43). pd/pis with r00 awards are eligiblethis foa does not require cost sharing as defined in the nih grants policy statement.applicant organizations may submit more than one application, provided that each application is scientifically distinct.the nih will not accept duplicate or highly overlapping applications under review at the same time per 2.3.7.4 submission of resubmission application. this means that the nih will not accept:the application forms package specific to this opportunity must be accessed through assist, grants.gov workspace or an institutional system-to-system solution. links to apply using assist or grants.gov workspace are available in part 1 of this foa. see your administrative office for instructions if you plan to use an institutional system-to-system solution.it is critical that applicants follow the research (r) instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, except where instructed in this funding opportunity announcement to do otherwise. conformance to the requirements in the application guide is required and strictly enforced. applications that are out of compliance with these instructions may be delayed or not accepted for review.although a letter of intent is not required, is not binding, and does not enter into the review of a subsequent application, the information that it contains allows ic staff to estimate the potential review workload and plan the review.by the date listed in part 1. overview information, prospective applicants are asked to submit a letter of intent that includes the following information:the letter of intent should be sent to:nhgrijyoti dayal, m.s.telephone: 301-480-2307 email: jyotig@mail.nih.govall page limitations described in the sf424 application guide and the table of page limits must be followed.note: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023, the data management and sharing (dms) plan will be attached in the other plan(s) attachment in forms-h and subsequent application forms packages. for due dates on or before january 24, 2023, the data sharing plan and genomic data sharing plan gds) will continue to be attached in the resource sharing plan attachment in forms-g application forms packages.the following section supplements the instructions found in the sf424 (r&r) application guide and should be used for preparing an application to this foa.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.other attachment:institutional letter: eligibility information must be submitted by the applicant's institution in a letter certifying that the pd/pi satisfies the eligibility criteria listed under sectioniii. "eligible individuals (program director/principal investigator)"this letter must be on institutional letterhead and the signatures (or digital signatures) from an authorized organization representative (aor) and the pd(s)/pi(s) are clearly legible. name the pdf formatted letter ‘eligibilitycertification.pdf’. applications without the institutional letter may be deemed incomplete and withdrawn. eligibility information provided in the institutional letter will be evaluated prior to an award.in addition to the eligibility information above, an applicant institution must include a statement explaining how participation of the identified pd/pi(s) would further the goals of new investigators to promote workforce diversity in genomics, bioinformatics, or bioengineering and biomedical imaging research program, consistent with the notice of nih's interest in diversity (not-od-20-031 (https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/notice-files/not-od-20-031.html)).all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.the pd/pi should have demonstrated the high potential to progress to robust, independent, and productive research career.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.other plan(s):note: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023, the data management and sharing plan will be attached in the other plan(s) attachment in forms-h and subsequent application forms packages. for due dates on or before january 24, 2023, the data sharing plan and genomic data sharing plan gds) will continue to be attached in the resource sharing plan attachment in forms-g application forms packages.all applicants planning research (funded or conducted in whole or in part by nih) that results in the generation of scientific data are required to comply with the instructions for the data management and sharing plan. all applications, regardless of the amount of direct costs requested for any one year, must address a data management and sharing plan.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed, with the following additional instructions:resource sharing plan: individuals are required to comply with the instructions for the resource sharing plans as provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, with the following modification:.resource sharing plans are expected for this foa.resource sharing plan components are as follows : (1) data sharing plan (//grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/url_redirect.htm?id=11151); (2) sharing model organisms (//grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/url_redirect.htm?id=11152); and (3) genomic data sharing plan (gds) (//grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/url_redirect.htm?id=11153).data sharing planawardees are expected to comply with the nih genomic data sharing (gds) policy (https://osp.od.nih.gov/wp-content/uploads/nih_gds_policy.pdf), if applicable. nhgri supports the broadest appropriate genomic data sharing with timely data release through widely accessible data repositories.appendix:only limited appendix materials are allowed. follow all instructions for the appendix as described in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.when involving human subjects research, clinical research, and/or nih-defined clinical trials (and when applicable, clinical trials research experience) follow all instructions for the phs human subjects and clinical trials information form in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, with the following additional instructions:if you answered “yes” to the question “are human subjects involved?” on the r&r other project information form, you must include at least one human subjects study record using the study record: phs human subjects and clinical trials information form or delayed onset study record.study record: phs human subjects and clinical trials informationall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.delayed onset studynote: delayed onset does not apply to a study that can be described but will not start immediately (i.e., delayed start).all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.not applicablesee part 1. section iii.1 for information regarding the requirement for obtaining a unique entity identifier and for completing and maintaining active registrations in system for award management (sam), nato commercial and government entity (ncage) code (if applicable), era commons, and grants.govpart i. overview information contains information about key dates and times. applicants are encouraged to submit applications before the due date to ensure they have time to make any application corrections that might be necessary for successful submission. when a submission date falls on a weekend or federal holiday, the application deadline is automatically extended to the next business day.organizations must submit applications to grants.gov (the online portal to find and apply for grants across all federal agencies). applicants must then complete the submission process by tracking the status of the application in the era commons, nih’s electronic system for grants administration. nih and grants.gov systems check the application against many of the application instructions upon submission. errors must be corrected and a changed/corrected application must be submitted to grants.gov on or before the application due date and time. if a changed/corrected application is submitted after the deadline, the application will be considered late. applications that miss the due date and time are subjected to the nih policy on late application submission.applicants are responsible for viewing their application before the due date in the era commons to ensure accurate and successful submission.information on the submission process and a definition of on-time submission are provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.this initiative is not subject to intergovernmental review.all nih awards are subject to the terms and conditions, cost principles, and other considerations described in the nih grants policy statement.pre-award costs are allowable only as described in the nih grants policy statement.applications must be submitted electronically following the instructions described in the sf424 (r&r) application guide. paper applications will not be accepted.applicants must complete all required registrations before the application due date. section iii. eligibility information contains information about registration.for assistance with your electronic application or for more information on the electronic submission process, visit how to apply – application guide. if you encounter a system issue beyond your control that threatens your ability to complete the submission process on-time, you must follow the dealing with system issues guidance. for assistance with application submission, contact the application submission contacts in section vii.important reminders:all pd(s)/pi(s) must include their era commons id in the credential field of the senior/key person profile component of the sf424(r&r) application package. failure to register in the commons and to include a valid pd/pi commons id in the credential field will prevent the successful submission of an electronic application to nih. see section iii of this foa for information on registration requirements.the applicant organization must ensure that the duns number it provides on the application is the same number used in the organization’s profile in the era commons and for the system for award management. additional information may be found in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.see more tips for avoiding common errors.upon receipt, applications will be evaluated for completeness and compliance with application instructions by the center for scientific review and responsiveness by components of participating organizations, nih. applications that are incomplete, non-compliant and/or nonresponsive will not be reviewed.in order to expedite review, applicants are requested to notify the nhgri referral office by email at grahambj@mail.nih.gov when the application has been submitted. please include the foa number and title, pd/pi name, and title of the application.applicants are required to follow the instructions for post-submission materials, as described in the policy. any instructions provided here are in addition to the instructions in the policy.note: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023, the data sharing plan and genomic data sharing plan (gds) as part of the resource sharing plan will not be evaluated at time of review.only the review criteria described below will be considered in the review process.applications submitted to the nih in support of the nih mission are evaluated for scientific and technical merit through the nih peer review system.reviewers will provide an overall impact score to reflect their assessment of the likelihood for the project to exert a sustained, powerful influence on the research field(s) involved, in consideration of the following review criteria and additional review criteria (as applicable for the project proposed).reviewers will consider each of the review criteria below in the determination of scientific merit, and give a separate score for each. an application does not need to be strong in all categories to be judged likely to have major scientific impact. for example, a project that by its nature is not innovative may be essential to advance a field.does the project address an important problem or a critical barrier to progress in the field? is the prior research that serves as the key support for the proposed project rigorous? if the aims of the project are achieved, how will scientific knowledge, technical capability, and/or clinical practice be improved? how will successful completion of the aims change the concepts, methods, technologies, treatments, services, or preventative interventions that drive this field?in addition, for applications involving clinical trials:are the scientific rationale and need for a clinical trial to test the proposed hypothesis or intervention well supported by preliminary data, clinical and/or preclinical studies, or information in the literature or knowledge of biological mechanisms? for trials focusing on clinical or public health endpoints, is this clinical trial necessary for testing the safety, efficacy or effectiveness of an intervention that could lead to a change in clinical practice, community behaviors or health care policy? for trials focusing on mechanistic, behavioral, physiological, biochemical, or other biomedical endpoints, is this trial needed to advance scientific understanding?are the pd(s)/pi(s), collaborators, and other researchers well suited to the project? if the project is collaborative or multi-pd/pi, do the investigators have complementary and integrated expertise; are their leadership approach, governance and organizational structure appropriate for the project?high potential investigators and research translationdo the pd(s)/pi(s) have high potential to progress to robust, independent, and productive research careers?in addition, for applications involving clinical trials:with regard to the proposed leadership for the project, do the pd/pi(s) and key personnel have the expertise, experience, and ability to organize, manage and implement the proposed clinical trial and meet milestones and timelines? do they have appropriate expertise in study coordination, data management and statistics? for a multicenter trial, is the organizational structure appropriate and does the application identify a core of potential center investigators and staffing for a coordinating center?does the application challenge and seek to shift current research or clinical practice paradigms by utilizing novel theoretical concepts, approaches or methodologies, instrumentation, or interventions? are the concepts, approaches or methodologies, instrumentation, or interventions novel to one field of research or novel in a broad sense? is a refinement, improvement, or new application of theoretical concepts, approaches or methodologies, instrumentation, or interventions proposed?in addition, for applications involving clinical trials:does the design/research plan include innovative elements, as appropriate, that enhance its sensitivity, potential for information or potential to advance scientific knowledge or clinical practice?are the overall strategy, methodology, and analyses well-reasoned and appropriate to accomplish the specific aims of the project? have the investigators included plans to address weaknesses in the rigor of prior research that serves as the key support for the proposed project? have the investigators presented strategies to ensure a robust and unbiased approach, as appropriate for the work proposed? are potential problems, alternative strategies, and benchmarks for success presented? if the project is in the early stages of development, will the strategy establish feasibility and will particularly risky aspects be managed? have the investigators presented adequate plans to address relevant biological variables, such as sex, for studies in vertebrate animals or human subjects?if the project involves human subjects and/or nih-defined clinical research, are the plans to address1) the protection of human subjects from research risks, and2) inclusion (or exclusion) of individuals on the basis of sex/gender, race, and ethnicity, as well as the inclusion or exclusion of individuals of all ages (including children and older adults), justified in terms of the scientific goals and research strategy proposed?in addition, for applications involving clinical trials:does the application adequately address the following, if applicable?study designis the study design justified and appropriate to address primary and secondary outcome variable(s)/endpoints that will be clear, informative and relevant to the hypothesis being tested? is the scientific rationale/premise of the study based on previously well-designed preclinical and/or clinical research? given the methods used to assign participants and deliver interventions, is the study design adequately powered to answer the research question(s), test the proposed hypothesis/hypotheses, and provide interpretable results? is the trial appropriately designed to conduct the research efficiently? are the study populations (size, gender, age, demographic group), proposed intervention arms/dose, and duration of the trial, appropriate and well justified?are potential ethical issues adequately addressed? is the process for obtaining informed consent or assent appropriate? is the eligible population available? are the plans for recruitment outreach, enrollment, retention, handling dropouts, missed visits, and losses to follow-up appropriate to ensure robust data collection? are the planned recruitment timelines feasible and is the plan to monitor accrual adequate? has the need for randomization (or not), masking (if appropriate), controls, and inclusion/exclusion criteria been addressed? are differences addressed, if applicable, in the intervention effect due to sex/gender and race/ethnicity?are the plans to standardize, assure quality of, and monitor adherence to, the trial protocol and data collection or distribution guidelines appropriate? is there a plan to obtain required study agent(s)? does the application propose to use existing available resources, as applicable?data management and statistical analysisare planned analyses and statistical approach appropriate for the proposed study design and methods used to assign participants and deliver interventions? are the procedures for data management and quality control of data adequate at clinical site(s) or at center laboratories, as applicable? have the methods for standardization of procedures for data management to assess the effect of the intervention and quality control been addressed? is there a plan to complete data analysis within the proposed period of the award?will the scientific environment in which the work will be done contribute to the probability of success? are the institutional support, equipment and other physical resources available to the investigators adequate for the project proposed? will the project benefit from unique features of the scientific environment, subject populations, or collaborative arrangements?in addition, for applications involving clinical trials:if proposed, are the administrative, data coordinating, enrollment, and laboratory/testing centers, appropriate for the trial proposed?does the application adequately address the capability and ability to conduct the trial at the proposed site(s) or centers? are the plans to add or drop enrollment centers, as needed, appropriate?if international site(s) is/are proposed, does the application adequately address the complexity of executing the clinical trial?if multi-sites/centers, is there evidence of the ability of the individual site or center to: (1) enroll the proposed numbers; (2) adhere to the protocol; (3) collect and transmit data in an accurate and timely fashion; and, (4) operate within the proposed organizational structure?as applicable for the project proposed, reviewers will evaluate the following additional items while determining scientific and technical merit, and in providing an overall impact score, but will not give separate scores for these items.study timelinespecific to applications involving clinical trialsis the study timeline described in detail, taking into account start-up activities, the anticipated rate of enrollment, and planned follow-up assessment? is the projected timeline feasible and well justified? does the project incorporate efficiencies and utilize existing resources (e.g., ctsas, practice-based research networks, electronic medical records, administrative database, or patient registries) to increase the efficiency of participant enrollment and data collection, as appropriate?are potential challenges and corresponding solutions discussed (e.g., strategies that can be implemented in the event of enrollment shortfalls)?for research that involves human subjects but does not involve one of the categories of research that are exempt under 45 cfr part 46, the committee will evaluate the justification for involvement of human subjects and the proposed protections from research risk relating to their participation according to the following five review criteria: 1) risk to subjects, 2) adequacy of protection against risks, 3) potential benefits to the subjects and others, 4) importance of the knowledge to be gained, and 5) data and safety monitoring for clinical trials.for research that involves human subjects and meets the criteria for one or more of the categories of research that are exempt under 45 cfr part 46, the committee will evaluate: 1) the justification for the exemption, 2) human subjects involvement and characteristics, and 3) sources of materials. for additional information on review of the human subjects section, please refer to the guidelines for the review of human subjects.when the proposed project involves human subjects and/or nih-defined clinical research, the committee will evaluate the proposed plans for the inclusion (or exclusion) of individuals on the basis of sex/gender, race, and ethnicity, as well as the inclusion (or exclusion) of individuals of all ages (including children and older adults) to determine if it is justified in terms of the scientific goals and research strategy proposed. for additional information on review of the inclusion section, please refer to the guidelines for the review of inclusion in clinical research.the committee will evaluate the involvement of live vertebrate animals as part of the scientific assessment according to the following criteria: (1) description of proposed procedures involving animals, including species, strains, ages, sex, and total number to be used; (2) justifications for the use of animals versus alternative models and for the appropriateness of the species proposed; (3) interventions to minimize discomfort, distress, pain and injury; and (4) justification for euthanasia method if not consistent with the avma guidelines for the euthanasia of animals. reviewers will assess the use of chimpanzees as they would any other application proposing the use of vertebrate animals. for additional information on review of the vertebrate animals section, please refer to the worksheet for review of the vertebrate animal section.reviewers will assess whether materials or procedures proposed are potentially hazardous to research personnel and/or the environment, and if needed, determine whether adequate protection is proposed.for resubmissions, the committee will evaluate the application as now presented, taking into consideration the responses to comments from the previous scientific review group and changes made to the project.not applicablenot applicable.note: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023, the data sharing plan and genomic data sharing plan (gds) as part of the resource sharing plan will not be evaluated at time of review.as applicable for the project proposed, reviewers will consider each of the following items, but will not give scores for these items, and should not consider them in providing an overall impact score.not applicablereviewers will assess the information provided in this section of the application, including 1) the select agent(s) to be used in the proposed research, 2) the registration status of all entities where select agent(s) will be used, 3) the procedures that will be used to monitor possession use and transfer of select agent(s), and 4) plans for appropriate biosafety, biocontainment, and security of the select agent(s).reviewers will comment on whether the following resource sharing plans, or the rationale for not sharing the following types of resources, are reasonable: (1) data sharing plan; (2) sharing model organisms; and (3) genomic data sharing plan (gds).for projects involving key biological and/or chemical resources, reviewers will comment on the brief plans proposed for identifying and ensuring the validity of those resources.reviewers will consider whether the budget and the requested period of support are fully justified and reasonable in relation to the proposed research.applications will be evaluated for scientific and technical merit by (an) appropriate scientific review group(s) convened by each ic, in accordance with nih peer review policy and procedures, using the stated review criteria. assignment to a scientific review group will be shown in the era commons.as part of the scientific peer review, all applications:appeals of initial peer review will not be accepted for applications submitted in response to this foa.applications will be assigned to the appropriate nih institute or center. applications will compete for available funds with all other recommended applications submitted in response to this foa. following initial peer review, recommended applications will receive a second level of review by the appropriate national advisory council or board. the following will be considered in making funding decisions:after the peer review of the application is completed, the pd/pi will be able to access his or her summary statement (written critique) via the era commons. refer to part 1 for dates for peer review, advisory council review, and earliest start date.information regarding the disposition of applications is available in the nih grants policy statement.if the application is under consideration for funding, nih will request "just-in-time" information from the applicant as described in the nih grants policy statement.a formal notification in the form of a notice of award (noa) will be provided to the applicant organization for successful applications. the noa signed by the grants management officer is the authorizing document and will be sent via email to the recipient’s business official.recipients must comply with any funding restrictions described in section iv.5. funding restrictions. selection of an application for award is not an authorization to begin performance. any costs incurred before receipt of the noa are at the recipient's risk. these costs may be reimbursed only to the extent considered allowable pre-award costs.any application awarded in response to this foa will be subject to terms and conditions found on the award conditions and information for nih grants website. this includes any recent legislation and policy applicable to awards that is highlighted on this website.individual awards are based on the application submitted to, and as approved by, the nih and are subject to the ic-specific terms and conditions identified in the noa.clinicaltrials.gov: if an award provides for one or more clinical trials. by law (title viii, section 801 of public law 110-85), the "responsible party" must register and submit results information for certain “applicable clinical trials” on the clinicaltrials.gov protocol registration and results system information website(https://register.clinicaltrials.gov). nih expects registration and results reporting of all trials whether required under the law or not. for more information, see https://grants.nih.gov/policy/clinical-trials/reporting/index.htminstitutional review board or independent ethics committee approval: recipient institutions must ensure that all protocols are reviewed by their irb or iec. to help ensure the safety of participants enrolled in nih-funded studies, the awardee must provide nih copies of documents related to all major changes in the status of ongoing protocols.data and safety monitoring requirements: the nih policy for data and safety monitoring requires oversight and monitoring of all nih-conducted or -supported human biomedical and behavioral intervention studies (clinical trials) to ensure the safety of participants and the validity and integrity of the data. further information concerning these requirements is found at http://grants.nih.gov/grants/policy/hs/data_safety.htm and in the application instructions (sf424 (r&r) and phs 398).investigational new drug or investigational device exemption requirements: consistent with federal regulations, clinical research projects involving the use of investigational therapeutics, vaccines, or other medical interventions (including licensed products and devices for a purpose other than that for which they were licensed) in humans under a research protocol must be performed under a food and drug administration (fda) investigational new drug (ind) or investigational device exemption (ide).all nih grant and cooperative agreement awards include the nih grants policy statement as part of the noa. for these terms of award, see the nih grants policy statement part ii: terms and conditions of nih grant awards, subpart a: general and part ii: terms and conditions of nih grant awards, subpart b: terms and conditions for specific types of grants, recipients, and activities, including of note, but not limited to:if a recipient is successful and receives a notice of award, in accepting the award, the recipient agrees that any activities under the award are subject to all provisions currently in effect or implemented during the period of the award, other department regulations and policies in effect at the time of the award, and applicable statutory provisions.recipients of federal financial assistance (ffa) from hhs must administer their programs in compliance with federal civil rights laws that prohibit discrimination on the basis of race, color, national origin, disability, age and, in some circumstances, religion, conscience, and sex. this includes ensuring programs are accessible to persons with limited english proficiency. the hhs office for civil rights provides guidance on complying with civil rights laws enforced by hhs. please see https://www.hhs.gov/civil-rights/for-providers/provider-obligations/index.html and http://www.hhs.gov/ocr/civilrights/understanding/section1557/index.html.hhs recognizes that research projects are often limited in scope for many reasons that are nondiscriminatory, such as the principal investigator’s scientific interest, funding limitations, recruitment requirements, and other considerations. thus, criteria in research protocols that target or exclude certain populations are warranted where nondiscriminatory justifications establish that such criteria are appropriate with respect to the health or safety of the subjects, the scientific study design, or the purpose of the research. for additional guidance regarding how the provisions apply to nih grant programs, please contact the scientific/research contact that is identified in section vii under agency contacts of this foa.please contact the hhs office for civil rights for more information about obligations and prohibitions under federal civil rights laws at https://www.hhs.gov/ocr/about-us/contact-us/index.html or call 1-800-368-1019 or tdd 1-800-537-7697.in accordance with the statutory provisions contained in section 872 of the duncan hunter national defense authorization act of fiscal year 2009 (public law 110-417), nih awards will be subject to the federal awardee performance and integrity information system (fapiis) requirements. fapiis requires federal award making officials to review and consider information about an applicant in the designated integrity and performance system (currently fapiis) prior to making an award. an applicant, at its option, may review information in the designated integrity and performance systems accessible through fapiis and comment on any information about itself that a federal agency previously entered and is currently in fapiis. the federal awarding agency will consider any comments by the applicant, in addition to other information in fapiis, in making a judgement about the applicant’s integrity, business ethics, and record of performance under federal awards when completing the review of risk posed by applicants as described in 45 cfr part 75.205 and 2 cfr part 200.206 “federal awarding agency review of risk posed by applicants.” this provision will apply to all nih grants and cooperative agreements except fellowships.cooperative agreement terms and conditions of awardnot applicabledata management and sharingnote: the nih policy for data management and sharing is effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023.consistent with the nih policy for data management and sharing, when data management and sharing is applicable to the award, recipients will be required to adhere to the data management and sharing requirements as outlined in the nih grants policy statement. upon the approval of a data management and sharing plan, it is required for recipients to implement the plan as described.when multiple years are involved, recipients will be required to submit the research performance progress report (rppr) annually and financial statements as required in the nih grants policy statement.a final rppr, invention statement, and the expenditure data portion of the federal financial report are required for closeout of an award, as described in the nih grants policy statement. nih foas outline intended research goals and objectives. post award, nih will review and measure performance based on the details and outcomes that are shared within the rppr, as described at 45 cfr part 75.301 and 2 cfr part 200.301.the federal funding accountability and transparency act of 2006 (transparency act), includes a requirement for recipients of federal grants to report information about first-tier subawards and executive compensation under federal assistance awards issued in fy2011 or later. all recipients of applicable nih grants and cooperative agreements are required to report to the federal subaward reporting system (fsrs) available at www.fsrs.gov on all subawards over the threshold. see the nih grants policy statement for additional information on this reporting requirement.in accordance with the regulatory requirements provided at 45 cfr 75.113 and 2 cfr part 200.113 and appendix xii to 45 cfr part 75 and 2 cfr part 200, recipients that have currently active federal grants, cooperative agreements, and procurement contracts from all federal awarding agencies with a cumulative total value greater than $10,000,000 for any period of time during the period of performance of a federal award, must report and maintain the currency of information reported in the system for award management (sam) about civil, criminal, and administrative proceedings in connection with the award or performance of a federal award that reached final disposition within the most recent five-year period. the recipient must also make semiannual disclosures regarding such proceedings. proceedings information will be made publicly available in the designated integrity and performance system (currently fapiis). this is a statutory requirement under section 872 of public law 110-417, as amended (41 u.s.c. 2313). as required by section 3010 of public law 111-212, all information posted in the designated integrity and performance system on or after april 15, 2011, except past performance reviews required for federal procurement contracts, will be publicly available. full reporting requirements and procedures are found in appendix xii to 45 cfr part 75 and 2 cfr part 200 – award term and condition for recipient integrity and performance matters.we encourage inquiries concerning this funding opportunity and welcome the opportunity to answer questions from potential applicants.era service desk (questions regarding assist, era commons, application errors and warnings, documenting system problems that threaten submission by the due date, and post-submission issues)finding help online: https://grants.nih.gov/support/index.html(preferred method of contact) telephone: 301-402-7469 or 866-504-9552 (toll free)general grants information (questions regarding application instructions, application processes, and nih grant resources) email: grantsinfo@nih.gov (preferred method of contact) telephone: 301-637-3015grants.gov customer support (questions regarding grants.gov registration and workspace) contact center telephone: 800-518-4726 email: support@grants.govjyoti dayal, m.s.national human genome research institute (nhgri)telephone: 301-480-2307 email: jyotig@mail.nih.govalbert avila, ph.d.national institute of biomedical imaging and bioengineering (nibib)telephone: 301.496.8804email:albert.avila@nih.govsheri schully, ph.d.all of us research program (all of us), office of the director (od)telephone: 301-827-1691email: sheri.schully@nih.govrudy pozzatti, ph.d.national human genome research institute (nhgri)tel. 301-210-6235email: pozzattr@exchange.nih.govmanana sukhareva, ph.d.national institute of biomedical imaging and bioengineeringtelephone:301 451 3397email: sukharem@mail.nih.govnatalie linearnational human genome research institute (nhgri)telephone: 301-827-0611 email: natalie.linear@mail.nih.govangelos bacasnational institute of biomedical imaging and bioengineeringtelephone: 301-451-4785 email: bacasa@mail.nih.govned culhaneall of us research program (all of us), office of the director (od)telephone: 301-827-2392email: edward.culhane@nih.govrecently issued trans-nih policy notices may affect your application submission. a full list of policy notices published by nih is provided in the nih guide for grants and contracts. all awards are subject to the terms and conditions, cost principles, and other considerations described in the nih grants policy statement.authority and regulationsawards are made under the authorization of sections 301 and 405 of the public health service act as amended (42 usc 241 and 284) and under federal regulations 42 cfr part 52 and 45 cfr part 75 and 2 cfr part 200.weekly toc for this announcement nih funding opportunities and noticesnote: for help accessing pdf, rtf, ms word, excel, powerpoint, audio or video files, see help downloading files.