Transformative Research Award for the INCLUDE (Investigation of Co-occurring Conditions across the Lifespan to Understand Down syndrome) Project (R01 Clinical Trial Not Allowed)
https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/rfa-files/RFA-OD-22-009.html
national institutes of health (nih)office of the director, national institutes of health (od) national eye institute (nei) national heart, lung, and blood institute (nhlbi) national human genome research institute (nhgri) national institute on aging (nia) national institute of allergy and infectious diseases (niaid) national institute of arthritis and musculoskeletal and skin diseases (niams) eunice kennedy shriver national institute of child health and human development (nichd) national institute on deafness and other communication disorders (nidcd) national institute of dental and craniofacial research (nidcr) national institute of mental health (nimh) national institute of neurological disorders and stroke (ninds) national cancer institute (nci) all applications to this funding opportunity announcement should fall within the mission of the institutes/centers. the following nih offices may co-fund applications assigned to those institutes/centers. division of program coordination, planning and strategic initiatives, office of research infrastructure programs (orip)national eye institute (nei)national heart, lung, and blood institute (nhlbi)national human genome research institute (nhgri)national institute on aging (nia)national institute of allergy and infectious diseases (niaid)national institute of arthritis and musculoskeletal and skin diseases (niams)eunice kennedy shriver national institute of child health and human development (nichd)national institute on deafness and other communication disorders (nidcd)national institute of dental and craniofacial research (nidcr)national institute of mental health (nimh)national institute of neurological disorders and stroke (ninds)national cancer institute (nci)all applications to this funding opportunity announcement should fall within the mission of the institutes/centers. the following nih offices may co-fund applications assigned to those institutes/centers.division of program coordination, planning and strategic initiatives, office of research infrastructure programs (orip)r01 research project grantnot-od-23-012 reminder: forms-h grant application forms and instructions must be used for due dates on or after january 25, 2023 - new grant application instructions now availablenot-od-22-190 - adjustments to nih and ahrq grant application due dates between september 22 and september 30, 2022see section iii. 3. additional information on eligibility.the nih investigation of co-occurring conditions across the lifespan to understand down syndrome (include) project seeks to improve health and quality-of-life for individuals with down syndrome. this funding opportunity announcement (foa) is soliciting transformative research award applications to support individual scientists or groups of scientists proposing groundbreaking, exceptionally innovative, original, and/or unconventional research that has the potential to create new scientific paradigms, establish entirely new and improved clinical approaches, or develop transformative technologies related to down syndrome. for the program to support the best possible researchers and research, applications are sought which reflect the full diversity of the nation’s research workforce. individuals from diverse backgrounds, including those from underrepresented groups and from the full spectrum of eligible institutions in all geographic locations are strongly encouraged to apply to this funding opportunity announcement. applications are welcome in all topics relevant to down syndrome-related research or its co-occurring conditions. no preliminary data are required. projects must clearly demonstrate, based on the strength of the logic, a compelling potential to produce a major impact in research related to down syndrome.not applicableall applications are due by 5:00 pm local time of applicant organization.applicants are encouraged to apply early to allow adequate time to make any corrections to errors found in the application during the submission process by the due date.not applicableit is critical that applicants follow the instructions in the research (r) instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, except where instructed to do otherwise (in this foa or in a notice from nih guide for grants and contracts).conformance to all requirements (both in the application guide and the foa) is required and strictly enforced. applicants must read and follow all application instructions in the application guide as well as any program-specific instructions noted in section iv. when the program-specific instructions deviate from those in the application guide, follow the program-specific instructions.applications that do not comply with these instructions may be delayed or not accepted for review.there are several options available to submit your application through grants.gov to nih and department of health and human services partners. you must use one of these submission options to access the application forms for this opportunity.the include transformative research award program supports collaborative investigative teams or individual scientists who propose unusually innovative research projects, which, if successful, would have a major impact in understanding the biology of down syndrome or related co-occurring conditions, or development of new treatments for health conditions experienced by individuals with down syndrome. to be considered transformative, projects must have the potential to create or overturn fundamental scientific paradigms through novel concepts or perspectives, transform the way research is conducted through the development of novel tools or technologies, or lead to major improvements in health through the development of highly innovative diagnostic, therapeutic, or preventive strategies. several key features of this funding opportunity announcement (foa) are designed to emphasize to applicants and peer reviewers that transformative research applications are very different from conventional, investigator-initiated research applications. the transformative research application focuses on the importance of the problem, the novelty of the hypothesis and/or the proposed methodology, and the magnitude of the potential impact rather than on preliminary data or experimental details. reviewers will be instructed to emphasize the significance and innovation of the application in their evaluations. applicants and reviewers should keep the goal of the transformative research award initiative in mind throughout the process– to solicit and fund unusually innovative and potentially transformative research.in order to support the most innovative and impactful research, the nih recognizes the need to foster a diverse research workforce across the nation. applications to this award program should reflect the full diversity of potential pds/pis, applicant institutions, and research areas relevant to the broad mission of nih. researchers from diverse backgrounds (see not-od-20-031), including individuals from underrepresented racial and ethnic groups, individuals with disabilities, individuals from disadvantaged backgrounds, and women are strongly encouraged to work with their institutions to develop applications for this foa. since outstanding research is conducted at a broad spectrum of institutions, it benefits the national scientific enterprise to support exceptionally innovative and impactful science that represents this breadth. therefore, this funding opportunity announcement encourages applications from the full range of eligible institutions, including those serving primarily underrepresented groups, those that may be less research-intensive, and from all domestic geographic locations. applications are welcome in all topics relevant to down syndrome-related research or its co-occurring conditions. the primary requirements are that the research be highly innovative and have the potential to impact down syndrome-related research.backgrounddown syndrome is the most common genetic cause of intellectual disability, the most common autosomal trisomy, and one of the most visible and universally recognized genetic syndromes. each year there are approximately 5300 babies born in the united states with down syndrome. within the past 25 years, the average lifespan for a person with down syndrome has doubled, from 30 to 60 years. despite this increase in lifespan, individuals with down syndrome and their families face significant and changing health challenges with age. however, they have often been excluded from participation in research that could improve their health outcomes and quality of life. while all people with down syndrome are connected by the common feature of a complete or partial copy of chromosome 21 (trisomy 21), there are significant physical and cognitive differences among them, indicating that inter-individual variability exists.down syndrome is associated with an increased prevalence of autism and epilepsy. about 75% of individuals experience cognitive decline in a syndrome that resembles alzheimer’s disease but has its onset a decade or two earlier than typical alzheimer’s disease. individuals with down syndrome also have high rates of hearing loss, eye abnormalities, congenital heart defects, sleep apnea, pulmonary hypertension, gastrointestinal malformations, thyroid disease, leukemia, and other autoimmune or immune dysregulation disorders including celiac disease. however, people with down syndrome infrequently develop solid tumors such as breast or prostate cancer, and despite multiple risk factors for coronary artery disease and high rates of obesity, sleep apnea, and type 1 diabetes, they rarely develop atherosclerosis or have myocardial infarctions. understanding this unique combination of risk and resiliencies will inform medical advances for individuals with down syndrome, and for individuals who do not have down syndrome but share these co-occurring conditions.this foa is one of several trans-nih research initiatives created in response to fiscal year 2018, 2019, 2020, and 2021 omnibus appropriations reports, which encourage nih to expand its current efforts on down syndrome and common co-occurring conditions also seen in the general population, while increasing the pipeline of down syndrome investigators. together, the initiatives are called the include project (investigation of co-occurring conditions across the lifespan to understand down syndrome). information about projects that were funded in prior years, as well as the nih include down syndrome research plan, are available on the include project website at https://www.nih.gov/include-project/.the include project has three components:scopethe purpose of this foa is to encourage transformative research that addresses component 1 of the include project -- namely to promote targeted, high risk-high reward, basic science studies in areas highly relevant to down syndrome. however, research related to component 2 may be applicable if proposing a transformative approach to cohort building.applications may or may not include use of vertebrate animals or human subjects; however, clinical trials are not responsive to this announcement. applications proposing studies that meet the nih definition of clinical trials may be more appropriate for the companion announcement rfa-od-22-010 clinical trials development for co-occurring conditions in individuals with down syndrome: phased awards for include (r61/r33 clinical trials required). applicants with projects of high scientific merit, but that do not meet the description of transformative research, are encouraged to apply as traditional research project grants (r01).examples of down syndrome-related research include, but are not limited to, the following:applications are assigned to participating institutes and centers (ics) based on receipt and referral guidelines, and applications may be assigned to multiple participating ics with related research interests. applicants are encouraged to identify a participating ic that supports their area of research and to contact scientific/research staff from relevant ics to inquire about their interest in supporting the proposed research project. contacts for each participating ic, and ic-specific funding priorities, are listed on the include website.projects that propose to recruit subjects with down syndrome are encouraged to promote enrollment of research subjects in the down syndrome patient registry supported by nih, ds-connect®. for biospecimens collected from human genetic or non-genetic studies, awardees are encouraged to use biorepositories designated by include staff that meet requirements for broad sharing. an nih resource describing common data elements may be helpful during the planning phases of a project when considering ways to optimize data collection in order to facilitate broad data sharing. for those applications that generate clinical data, it is expected that the data-sharing plan will include the include data coordinating center (dcc).see section viii. other information for award authorities and regulations.grant: a support mechanism providing money, property, or both to an eligible entity to carry out an approved project or activity.new, renewal or revisionthe oer glossary and the sf424 (r&r) application guide provide details on these application types. only those application types listed here are allowed for this foa.not allowed: only accepting applications that do not propose clinical trials.need help determining whether you are doing a clinical trial?the nih intends to commit total costs of at least $6,000,000 in fy2022 to fund up to four awards.the number of awards is contingent upon nih appropriations and the submission of a sufficient number of meritorious applications. future year amounts will depend on annual appropriations.the maximum project period is five years.nih grants policies as described in the nih grants policy statement will apply to the applications submitted and awards made from this foa.1. eligible applicantshigher education institutionsthe following types of higher education institutions are always encouraged to apply for nih support as public or private institutions of higher education:nonprofits other than institutions of higher educationfor-profit organizationslocal governmentsfederal governmentsothernon-domestic (non-u.s.) entities (foreign institutions) are eligible to apply.non-domestic (non-u.s.) components of u.s. organizations are eligible to apply.foreign components, as defined in the nih grants policy statement, are allowed.applicant organizationsapplicant organizations must complete and maintain the following registrations as described in the sf 424 (r&r) application guide to be eligible to apply for or receive an award. all registrations must be completed prior to the application being submitted. registration can take 6 weeks or more, so applicants should begin the registration process as soon as possible. the nih policy on late submission of grant applications states that failure to complete registrations in advance of a due date is not a valid reason for a late submission.program directors/principal investigators (pd(s)/pi(s))all pd(s)/pi(s) must have an era commons account. pd(s)/pi(s) should work with their organizational officials to either create a new account or to affiliate their existing account with the applicant organization in era commons. if the pd/pi is also the organizational signing official, they must have two distinct era commons accounts, one for each role. obtaining an era commons account can take up to 2 weeks.any individual(s) with the skills, knowledge, and resources necessary to carry out the proposed research as the program director(s)/principal investigator(s) (pd(s)/pi(s)) is invited to work with his/her organization to develop an application for support. individuals from underrepresented racial and ethnic groups as well as individuals with disabilities are always encouraged to apply for nih support.for institutions/organizations proposing multiple pds/pis, visit the multiple program director/principal investigator policy and submission details in the senior/key person profile (expanded) component of the sf424 (r&r) application guide.2. cost sharingthis foa does not require cost sharing as defined in the nih grants policy statement.3. additional information on eligibilitynumber of applicationsapplicant organizations may submit more than one application, provided that each application is scientifically distinct.the nih will not accept duplicate or highly overlapping applications under review at the same time, per 2.3.7.4 submission of resubmission application. this means that the nih will not accept:1. requesting an application packagethe application forms package specific to this opportunity must be accessed through assist, grants.gov workspace or an institutional system-to-system solution. links to apply using assist or grants.gov workspace are available in part 1 of this foa. see your administrative office for instructions if you plan to use an institutional system-to-system solution.2. content and form of application submissionletter of intentalthough a letter of intent is not required, is not binding, and does not enter into the review of a subsequent application, the information that it contains allows ic staff to estimate the potential review workload and plan the review.by the date listed in part 1. overview information, prospective applicants are asked to submit a letter of intent that includes the following information:the letter of intent should be sent to:natalia komissarova, ph.d. center for scientific review telephone: 301-435-1206 email: komissar@mail.nih.govpage limitationsall page limitations described in the sf424 application guide and the table of page limits must be followed.instructions for application submissionnote: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023, the data management and sharing (dms) plan will be attached in the other plan(s) attachment in forms-h and subsequent application forms packages. for due dates on or before january 24, 2023, the data sharing plan and genomic data sharing plan gds) will continue to be attached in the resource sharing plan attachment in forms-g application forms packages.the following section supplements the instructions found in the sf424 (r&r) application guide and should be used for preparing an application to this foa.sf424(r&r) coverall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.sf424(r&r) project/performance site locationsall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.sf424(r&r) other project informationall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.sf424(r&r) senior/key person profileall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.r&r or modular budgetall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.r&r subaward budgetall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.phs 398 cover page supplementall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.phs 398 research planother plan(s):note: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023, the data management and sharing plan will be attached in the other plan(s) attachment in forms-h and subsequent application forms packages. for due dates on or before january 24, 2023, the data sharing plan and genomic data sharing plan gds) will continue to be attached in the resource sharing plan attachment in forms-g application forms packages.all applicants planning research (funded or conducted in whole or in part by nih) that results in the generation of scientific data are required to comply with the instructions for the data management and sharing plan. all applications, regardless of the amount of direct costs requested for any one year, must address a data management and sharing plan.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed, with the following additional instructions:research strategy: organize the research strategy as a single document in the specified order using the instructions provided below. start each section with the appropriate section heading as indicated. the presentation must be clear and compelling to both experts and non-experts in the field.overview of research project: describe briefly what is being proposed and why it is important to down syndrome-related research or co-occurring conditions. describe briefly what is the state-of-the-art or a major challenge in the down syndrome field and how what is being proposed will advance well beyond the current status to transform the down syndrome field. state the fundamental new insight that is driving this project.approach: describe the overall approach to be pursued. no detailed experimental plan or substantial preliminary data is required. though preliminary data are not required, if limited preliminary data are provided, they will be evaluated. provision of substantial data is not aligned with the intention of the transformative research award program. it is recommended to prominently state that, per the foa instructions, a detailed experimental plan and substantial preliminary data are not being provided. in lieu of preliminary data, provide the underlying logic or rationale for pursuing this project in the manner proposed. summarize what you believe to be the major challenges or risks in the project and alternate approaches that may need to be pursued. despite the lack of detailed plans and data, the reviewers still must have a clear sense of what is being proposed and why it is important, must be convinced that the applicants have thought very deeply about the project, and must be satisfied that the research will be conducted in a robust, rigorous, and reproducible manner.innovation: describe the elements of exceptional innovation in your proposed research and why they should be considered to be so compared to current approaches, paradigms, practices, or perspectives.appropriateness for the transformative research award: describe why the proposed research is well suited to the goals of the transformative research award program rather than a more traditional research grant program.timeline: the transformative research award project must be designed to have deliverables by the end of the project period that have the potential for transformative impact. the application must include milestones the researchers expect to achieve by the end of the award. milestones should be specific, quantifiable, and scientifically justified; they should not be a restatement of the specific aims. the project should not be framed as initiating a line of research that will have the potential for transformative impact only after subsequent periods of support. provide a timeline within the project period for the proposed research indicating points where intermediate objectives will be assessed, the measurable outcomes that will be used to monitor progress, and the timing and process for reaching decisions regarding the course and direction of the continuing research effort. given the high degree of risk involved in applications submitted under the transformative research award program, it is anticipated that investigators will need to continually reassess approaches based on experimental outcomes and potentially alter course to meet project goals. possible alternative paths that may be followed at critical junctures in the project plan should be indicated on the timeline. prior to award, the pd(s)/pi(s) and nih staff may negotiate the list of milestones, and milestones may be revised during the project period in response to progress of the project.resource sharing plan: individuals are required to comply with the instructions for the resource sharing plans as provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.the following modifications also apply:all applications, regardless of the amount of direct costs requested for any one year, should address a data sharing plan. the data sharing plan will be considered during peer review and by program staff as award decisions are being made as appropriate and consistent with achieving the goals of the program. it is expected that the results of include-funded research will be shared with the wider scientific community in a timely manner.nih intends to maximize the impact of include-supported projects through broad and rapid data sharing. consistent with the priorities of the include project, all applications, regardless of the amount of direct costs requested for any one year, are required to include a data management and sharing plan outlining how scientific data and any accompanying metadata will be managed and shared, regardless of whether the data are used to support scholarly publication. the plan should describe data types, file formats, submission timelines, and standards used in collecting or processing the data. it is expected that all de-identified human data generated by include-funded projects will be submitted to nih-designated repositories in coordination with the include data coordinating center (dcc). all applications generating human genomic data should include, as an attachment, an institutional certification (https://osp.od.nih.gov/scientific-sharing/institutional-certifications/) which indicates the data use limitations and/or modifiers stating how individual level sequence data can be shared with and used by secondary users, under the guidance of the nih genomic data sharing policy: http://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/notice-files/not-od-14-124.html. for more information regarding include data sharing, visithttps://www.nih.gov/include-project/frequently-asked-questions.considerationsto maximize comparisons across datasets or studies, and facilitate data integration and collaboration, applications submitted in response to this rfa are strongly encouraged to incorporate the following standards and resources (where applicable):appendix:only limited appendix materials are allowed. follow all instructions for the appendix as described in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.phs human subjects and clinical trials informationwhen involving human subjects research, clinical research, and/or nih-defined clinical trials (and when applicable, clinical trials research experience) follow all instructions for the phs human subjects and clinical trials information form in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, with the following additional instructions:if you answered “yes” to the question “are human subjects involved?” on the r&r other project information form, you must include at least one human subjects study record using the study record: phs human subjects and clinical trials information form or delayed onset study record.study record: phs human subjects and clinical trials informationall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.delayed onset studynote: delayed onset does not apply to a study that can be described but will not start immediately (i.e., delayed start).all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.phs assignment request formall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.foreign institutionsforeign (non-u.s.) institutions must follow policies described in the nih grants policy statement, and procedures for foreign institutions described throughout the sf424 (r&r) application guide.3. unique entity identifier and system for award management (sam)see part 1. section iii.1 for information regarding the requirement for obtaining a unique entity identifier and for completing and maintaining active registrations in system for award management (sam), nato commercial and government entity (ncage) code (if applicable), era commons, and grants.gov.4. submission dates and timespart i. overview information contains information about key dates and times. applicants are encouraged to submit applications before the due date to ensure they have time to make any application corrections that might be necessary for successful submission. when a submission date falls on a weekend or federal holiday, the application deadline is automatically extended to the next business day.organizations must submit applications to grants.gov (the online portal to find and apply for grants across all federal agencies). applicants must then complete the submission process by tracking the status of the application in the era commons, nih’s electronic system for grants administration. nih and grants.gov systems check the application against many of the application instructions upon submission. errors must be corrected and a changed/corrected application must be submitted to grants.gov on or before the application due date and time. if a changed/corrected application is submitted after the deadline, the application will be considered late. applications that miss the due date and time are subjected to the nih policy on late application submission.applicants are responsible for viewing their application before the due date in the era commons to ensure accurate and successful submission.information on the submission process and a definition of on-time submission are provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.5. intergovernmental review (e.o. 12372)this initiative is not subject to intergovernmental review.6. funding restrictionsall nih awards are subject to the terms and conditions, cost principles, and other considerations described in the nih grants policy statement.pre-award costs are allowable only as described in the nih grants policy statement.7. other submission requirements and informationapplications must be submitted electronically following the instructions described in the sf424 (r&r) application guide. paper applications will not be accepted.applicants must complete all required registrations before the application due date. section iii. eligibility information contains information about registration.for assistance with your electronic application or for more information on the electronic submission process, visit how to apply – application guide. if you encounter a system issue beyond your control that threatens your ability to complete the submission process on-time, you must follow the dealing with system issues guidance. for assistance with application submission, contact the application submission contacts in section vii.important reminders:all pd(s)/pi(s) must include their era commons id in the credential fieldof the senior/key person profile form. failure to register in the commons and to include a valid pd/pi commons id in the credential field will prevent the successful submission of an electronic application to nih. see section iii of this foa for information on registration requirements.the applicant organization must ensure that the unique entity identifier (duns number or uei as required) provided on the application is the same number used in the organization’s profile in the era commons and for the system for award management. additional information may be found in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.see more tips for avoiding common errors.upon receipt, applications will be evaluated for completeness and compliance with application instructions by the center for scientific review and responsiveness by components of participating organizations, nih. applications that are incomplete, non-compliant and/or nonresponsive will not be reviewed.post submission materialsapplicants are required to follow the instructions for post-submission materials, as described in the policy. any instructions provided here are in addition to the instructions in the policy.1. criterianote: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023, the data sharing plan and genomic data sharing plan (gds) as part of the resource sharing plan will not be evaluated at time of review.only the review criteria described below will be considered in the review process. applications submitted to the nih in support of the nih mission are evaluated for scientific and technical merit through the nih peer review system.for this particular announcement, note the following:the nih director's transformative research award is designed to support exceptionally innovative research projects with the potential to have a profound effect on an area of research relevant to the broad mission of nih. the innovation may be technical, conceptual, or (often) a combination of both. given the high level of innovation expected, conventionally detailed experimental plans and extensive preliminary data are not required. accordingly, reviewers will emphasize the strength of the conceptual framework, the level of innovation, and the potential to significantly advance our understanding or capability in down syndrome-related research.overall impactreviewers will provide an overall impact score to reflect their assessment of the likelihood for the project to exert a sustained, powerful influence on the research field(s) involved, in consideration of the following review criteria and additional review criteria (as applicable for the project proposed).reviewers will consider each of the review criteria below in the determination of scientific merit, and give a separate score for each. an application does not need to be strong in all categories to be judged likely to have major scientific impact. for example, a project that by its nature is not innovative may be essential to advance a field.does the project address an important problem or a critical barrier to progress in the field? is the prior research that serves as the key support for the proposed project rigorous? if the aims of the project are achieved, how will scientific knowledge, technical capability, and/or clinical practice be improved? how will successful completion of the aims change the concepts, methods, technologies, treatments, services, or preventative interventions that drive this field?specific to this foa: to what extent does the study have clear transformative potential? is the proposed research likely to be exceptional in terms of its consequences for the field and size of the community affected? is the paradigm being challenged or proposed fundamental to the field?are the pd(s)/pi(s), collaborators, and other researchers well suited to the project? if early stage investigators or those in the early stages of independent careers, do they have appropriate experience and training? if established, have they demonstrated an ongoing record of accomplishments that have advanced their field(s)? if the project is collaborative or multi-pd/pi, do the investigators have complementary and integrated expertise; are their leadership approach, governance and organizational structure appropriate for the project?specific to this foa: do the pd(s)/pi(s) commit sufficient effort to make the proposed research a priority?does the application challenge and seek to shift current research or clinical practice paradigms by utilizing novel theoretical concepts, approaches or methodologies, instrumentation, or interventions? are the concepts, approaches or methodologies, instrumentation, or interventions novel to one field of research or novel in a broad sense? is a refinement, improvement, or new application of theoretical concepts, approaches or methodologies, instrumentation, or interventions proposed?are the overall strategy, methodology, and analyses well-reasoned and appropriate to accomplish the specific aims of the project? have the investigators included plans to address weaknesses in the rigor of prior research that serves as the key support for the proposed project? have the investigators presented strategies to ensure a robust and unbiased approach, as appropriate for the work proposed? are potential problems, alternative strategies, and benchmarks for success presented? if the project is in the early stages of development, will the strategy establish feasibility and will particularly risky aspects be managed? have the investigators presented adequate plans to address relevant biological variables, such as sex, for studies in vertebrate animals or human subjects?if the project involves human subjects and/or nih-defined clinical research, are the plans to address 1) the protection of human subjects from research risks, and 2) inclusion (or exclusion) of individuals on the basis of sex/gender, race, and ethnicity, as well as the inclusion or exclusion of individuals of all ages (including children and older adults), justified in terms of the scientific goals and research strategy proposed?specific to this foa: is the logic of the approach compelling despite the lack of experimental details and substantial preliminary data? is there evidence that the investigators will pursue the project, despite its inherent risks, in a robust, reproducible, and rigorous manner? does the information in the timeline inspire confidence that the pd(s)/pi(s) will be able to assess progress in each year of the award and either complete the project or demonstrate conclusively that it cannot be completed, despite good-faith efforts, during the term of the award?for this particular announcement, reviewers will also comment on whether the resource sharing plan includes a plan to provide data, tools, workflows, and/or pipelines that will be used or created as part of this opportunity to nih designated resources for sharing with the wider scientific community, in a manner that would enable other researchers to replicate and build on the analyses for future research efforts. reviewers will comment on whether the applicant has provided a data and resource sharing plan that adequately describes the timeline, formats, and methods of sharing these data and products.for applications that aim to analyze raw datasets that are currently accessible through an nih-approved repository (e.g., dbgap) or some other public controlled access database, reviewers will comment on whether the applicant has described the database through which the proposed data are accessible to the research community and the details of the dataset including any data use limitations based on the associated consent form.for applications that aim to analyze raw data that are not currently accessible through an nih-approved repository (e.g., dbgap) or some other public controlled access database, reviewers will comment on whether applicants have described a plan to submit these data to an nih-approved repository (e.g., dbgap).will the scientific environment in which the work will be done contribute to the probability of success? are the institutional support, equipment and other physical resources available to the investigators adequate for the project proposed? will the project benefit from unique features of the scientific environment, subject populations, or collaborative arrangements?as applicable for the project proposed, reviewers will evaluate the following additional items while determining scientific and technical merit, and in providing an overall impact score, but will not give separate scores for these items.for research that involves human subjects but does not involve one of the categories of research that are exempt under 45 cfr part 46, the committee will evaluate the justification for involvement of human subjects and the proposed protections from research risk relating to their participation according to the following five review criteria: 1) risk to subjects, 2) adequacy of protection against risks, 3) potential benefits to the subjects and others, 4) importance of the knowledge to be gained, and 5) data and safety monitoring for clinical trials.for research that involves human subjects and meets the criteria for one or more of the categories of research that are exempt under 45 cfr part 46, the committee will evaluate: 1) the justification for the exemption, 2) human subjects involvement and characteristics, and 3) sources of materials. for additional information on review of the human subjects section, please refer to the guidelines for the review of human subjects.when the proposed project involves human subjects and/or nih-defined clinical research, the committee will evaluate the proposed plans for the inclusion (or exclusion) of individuals on the basis of sex/gender, race, and ethnicity, as well as the inclusion (or exclusion) of individuals of all ages (including children and older adults) to determine if it is justified in terms of the scientific goals and research strategy proposed. for additional information on review of the inclusion section, please refer to the guidelines for the review of inclusion in clinical research.the committee will evaluate the involvement of live vertebrate animals as part of the scientific assessment according to the following criteria: (1) description of proposed procedures involving animals, including species, strains, ages, sex, and total number to be used; (2) justifications for the use of animals versus alternative models and for the appropriateness of the species proposed; (3) interventions to minimize discomfort, distress, pain and injury; and (4) justification for euthanasia method if not consistent with the avma guidelines for the euthanasia of animals. reviewers will assess the use of chimpanzees as they would any other application proposing the use of vertebrate animals. for additional information on review of the vertebrate animals section, please refer to the worksheet for review of the vertebrate animal section.reviewers will assess whether materials or procedures proposed are potentially hazardous to research personnel and/or the environment, and if needed, determine whether adequate protection is proposed.for resubmissions, the committee will evaluate the application as now presented, taking into consideration the responses to comments from the previous scientific review group and changes made to the project.for renewals, the committee will consider the progress made in the last funding period.for revisions, the committee will consider the appropriateness of the proposed expansion of the scope of the project. if the revision application relates to a specific line of investigation presented in the original application that was not recommended for approval by the committee, then the committee will consider whether the responses to comments from the previous scientific review group are adequate and whether substantial changes are clearly evident.peer reviewers will separately evaluate the recruitment plan (when applicable) to enhance diversity after the overall score has been determined. reviewers will examine the strategies to be used to recruit a diverse pool of potential candidates that includes individuals from underrepresented groups. the overall plan will be rated as acceptable only if the recruitment strategies for all of the relevant groups identified in the notice of nih's interest in diversity are viewed by the review panel as acceptable, otherwise the plan will be rated as unacceptable. the consensus of the review committee will be included in an administrative note in the summary statement.note: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023, the data sharing plan and genomic data sharing plan (gds) as part of the resource sharing plan will not be evaluated at time of review.as applicable for the project proposed, reviewers will consider each of the following items, but will not give scores for these items, and should not consider them in providing an overall impact score.reviewers will assess whether the project presents special opportunities for furthering research programs through the use of unusual talent, resources, populations, or environmental conditions that exist in other countries and either are not readily available in the united states or augment existing u.s. resources.reviewers will assess the information provided in this section of the application, including 1) the select agent(s) to be used in the proposed research, 2) the registration status of all entities where select agent(s) will be used, 3) the procedures that will be used to monitor possession use and transfer of select agent(s), and 4) plans for appropriate biosafety, biocontainment, and security of the select agent(s).reviewers will comment on whether the following resource sharing plans, or the rationale for not sharing the following types of resources, are reasonable: (1) data sharing plan; (2) sharing model organisms; and (3) genomic data sharing plan (gds).for projects involving key biological and/or chemical resources, reviewers will comment on the brief plans proposed for identifying and ensuring the validity of those resources.reviewers will consider whether the budget and the requested period of support are fully justified and reasonable in relation to the proposed research.2. review and selection processapplications will be evaluated for scientific and technical merit by (an) appropriate scientific review group(s) convened by the center for scientific review, in accordance with nih peer review policy and procedures, using the stated review criteria. assignment to a scientific review group will be shown in the era commons.as part of the scientific peer review, all applications will receive a written critique.applications may undergo a selection process in which only those applications deemed to have the highest scientific and technical merit (generally the top half of applications under review) will be discussed and assigned an overall impact score.appeals of initial peer review will not be accepted for applications submitted in response to this foa.applications will be assigned on the basis of established phs referral guidelines to the appropriate nih institute or center. applications will compete for available funds with all other recommended applications submitted in response to this foa. following initial peer review, recommended applications will receive a second level of review by the appropriate national advisory council or board. the following will be considered in making funding decisions:3. anticipated announcement and award datesafter the peer review of the application is completed, the pd/pi will be able to access his or her summary statement (written critique) via the era commons. refer to part 1 for dates for peer review, advisory council review, and earliest start date.information regarding the disposition of applications is available in the nih grants policy statement.1. award noticesif the application is under consideration for funding, nih will request "just-in-time" information from the applicant as described in the nih grants policy statement.a formal notification in the form of a notice of award (noa) will be provided to the applicant organization for successful applications. the noa signed by the grants management officer is the authorizing document and will be sent via email to the recipient's business official.recipients must comply with any funding restrictions described in section iv.6. funding restrictions. selection of an application for award is not an authorization to begin performance. any costs incurred before receipt of the noa are at the recipient's risk. these costs may be reimbursed only to the extent considered allowable pre-award costs.any application awarded in response to this foa will be subject to terms and conditions found on the award conditions and information for nih grants website. this includes any recent legislation and policy applicable to awards that is highlighted on this website.institutional review board or independent ethics committee approval: recipient institutions must ensure that protocols are reviewed by their irb or iec. to help ensure the safety of participants enrolled in nih-funded studies, the recipient must provide nih copies of documents related to all major changes in the status of ongoing protocols.2. administrative and national policy requirementsall nih grant and cooperative agreement awards include the nih grants policy statement as part of the noa. for these terms of award, see the nih grants policy statement part ii: terms and conditions of nih grant awards, subpart a: general and part ii: terms and conditions of nih grant awards, subpart b: terms and conditions for specific types of grants, recipients, and activities, including of note, but not limited to:if a recipient is successful and receives a notice of award, in accepting the award, the recipient agrees that any activities under the award are subject to all provisions currently in effect or implemented during the period of the award, other department regulations and policies in effect at the time of the award, and applicable statutory provisions.should the applicant organization successfully compete for an award, recipients of federal financial assistance (ffa) from hhs must administer their programs in compliance with federal civil rights laws that prohibit discrimination on the basis of race, color, national origin, disability, age and, in some circumstances, religion, conscience, and sex (including gender identify, sexual orientation, and pregnancy). this includes ensuring programs are accessible to persons with limited english proficiency and persons with disabilities. the hhs office for civil rights provides guidance on complying with civil rights laws enforced by hhs. please see https://www.hhs.gov/civil-rights/for-providers/provider-obligations/index.html and https://www.hhs.gov/civil-rights/for-individuals/nondiscrimination/index.htmlhhs recognizes that research projects are often limited in scope for many reasons that are nondiscriminatory, such as the principal investigator’s scientific interest, funding limitations, recruitment requirements, and other considerations. thus, criteria in research protocols that target or exclude certain populations are warranted where nondiscriminatory justifications establish that such criteria are appropriate with respect to the health or safety of the subjects, the scientific study design, or the purpose of the research. for additional guidance regarding how the provisions apply to nih grant programs, please contact the scientific/research contact that is identified in section vii under agency contacts of this foa.please contact the hhs office for civil rights for more information about obligations and prohibitions under federal civil rights laws at https://www.hhs.gov/ocr/about-us/contact-us/index.html or call 1-800-368-1019 or tdd 1-800-537-7697.in accordance with the statutory provisions contained in section 872 of the duncan hunter national defense authorization act of fiscal year 2009 (public law 110-417), nih awards will be subject to the federal awardee performance and integrity information system (fapiis) requirements. fapiis requires federal award making officials to review and consider information about an applicant in the designated integrity and performance system (currently fapiis) prior to making an award. an applicant, at its option, may review information in the designated integrity and performance systems accessible through fapiis and comment on any information about itself that a federal agency previously entered and is currently in fapiis. the federal awarding agency will consider any comments by the applicant, in addition to other information in fapiis, in making a judgement about the applicant’s integrity, business ethics, and record of performance under federal awards when completing the review of risk posed by applicants as described in 45 cfr part 75.205 and 2 cfr part 200.206 “federal awarding agency review of risk posed by applicants.” this provision will apply to all nih grants and cooperative agreements except fellowships.not applicabledata management and sharingnote: the nih policy for data management and sharing is effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023.consistent with the nih policy for data management and sharing, when data management and sharing is applicable to the award, recipients will be required to adhere to the data management and sharing requirements as outlined in the nih grants policy statement. upon the approval of a data management and sharing plan, it is required for recipients to implement the plan as described.3. reportingwhen multiple years are involved, recipients will be required to submit the research performance progress report (rppr) annually and financial statements as required in the nih grants policy statement.a final rppr, invention statement, and the expenditure data portion of the federal financial report are required for closeout of an award, as described in the nih grants policy statement. nih foas outline intended research goals and objectives. post award, nih will review and measure performance based on the details and outcomes that are shared within the rppr, as described at 45 cfr part 75.301 and 2 cfr part 200.301.the federal funding accountability and transparency act of 2006 (transparency act), includes a requirement for recipients of federal grants to report information about first-tier subawards and executive compensation under federal assistance awards issued in fy2011 or later. all recipients of applicable nih grants and cooperative agreements are required to report to the federal subaward reporting system (fsrs) available at www.fsrs.gov on all subawards over the threshold. see the nih grants policy statement for additional information on this reporting requirement.in accordance with the regulatory requirements provided at 45 cfr 75.113 and 2 cfr part 200.113 and appendix xii to 45 cfr part 75 and 2 cfr part 200, recipients that have currently active federal grants, cooperative agreements, and procurement contracts from all federal awarding agencies with a cumulative total value greater than $10,000,000 for any period of time during the period of performance of a federal award, must report and maintain the currency of information reported in the system for award management (sam) about civil, criminal, and administrative proceedings in connection with the award or performance of a federal award that reached final disposition within the most recent five-year period. the recipient must also make semiannual disclosures regarding such proceedings. proceedings information will be made publicly available in the designated integrity and performance system (currently fapiis). this is a statutory requirement under section 872 of public law 110-417, as amended (41 u.s.c. 2313). as required by section 3010 of public law 111-212, all information posted in the designated integrity and performance system on or after april 15, 2011, except past performance reviews required for federal procurement contracts, will be publicly available. full reporting requirements and procedures are found in appendix xii to 45 cfr part 75 and 2 cfr part 200 – award term and condition for recipient integrity and performance matters.we encourage inquiries concerning this funding opportunity and welcome the opportunity to answer questions from potential applicants.era service desk (questions regarding assist, era commons, application errors and warnings, documenting system problems that threaten submission by the due date, and post-submission issues)finding help online: http://grants.nih.gov/support/ (preferred method of contact) telephone: 301-402-7469 or 866-504-9552 (toll free)general grants information (questions regarding application instructions, application processes, and nih grant resources) email: grantsinfo@nih.gov (preferred method of contact) telephone: 301-637-3015grants.gov customer support (questions regarding grants.gov registration and workspace) contact center telephone: 800-518-4726 email: support@grants.govcharlene schramm, ph.d. national heart, lung, and blood institute (nhlbi) telephone: 301-402-3793 email:schrammc@nih.govfrosso voulgaropoulou, ph.d. national institute of allergy and infectious diseases (niaid) telephone: 240-627-3205 email: fvoulgaropoulou@niaid.nih.govjyoti gupta national human genome research institute (nhgri) phone: 301.480.2307 e-mail: jyotig@nhgri.nih.govsige zou orip - office of research infrastructure programs phone: 301-435-0749 e-mail: zous@mail.nih.govrobert riddle national institute of neurological disorders and stroke telephone: 301 496 5745 email: riddler@nih.govmargaret klauzinska, ph.d. national cancer institute (nci) telephone: 240-276-5181 email: klauzing@mail.nih.govkelly anne king, au.d., ph.d. national institute on deafness and other communication disorders (nidcd) phone: 301-402-3458 e-mail: kingke@mail.nih.govcharlene a schramm national heart, lung, and blood institute (nhlbi) phone: (301) 435-0510 e-mail: schrammc@mail.nih.govelise rice, phd national institute of dental & craniofacial research (nidcr) phone: 301-594-4814 e-mail: elise.rice@nih.govmelissa parisi, md, phd eunice kennedy shriver national institute of child health and human development (nichd) telephone: 301-435-6880 email: parisima@mail.nih.govhoumam h araj nei - national eye institute phone: (301) 435-8166 e-mail: ha50c@nih.govmarie mancini, phd national institute of arthritis and musculoskeletal and skin diseases (niams) phone: 301-594-5032 e-mail: mancinim2@mail.nih.govnatalia komissarova, ph.d. center for scientific review telephone: 301-435-1206 email:komissar@mail.nih.govkelly fritz grants management branch eunice kennedy shrivernational institute of child health and human development telephone: 301-827-5429 email: kelly.fritz@nih.govsam ashe national institute of allergy and infectious diseases (niaid) telephone: 301-435-4799 email: samuel.ashe@nih.govchief grants management officer national institute of neurological disorders and stroke (ninds) email: chiefgrantsmanagementofficer@ninds.nih.govcrystal wolfrey national cancer institute (nci) telephone: 240-276-6277 email: wolfreyc@mail.nih.govchristopher myers national institute on deafness and other communication disorders (nidcd) phone: (301) 435-0713 e-mail: myersc@nidcd.nih.govdiana rutberg, mba national institute of dental & craniofacial research (nidcr) phone: (301) 594-4798 e-mail:rutbergd@mail.nih.govkelly fritz eunice kennedy shriver national institute of child health and human development (nichd) telephone: 301-827-5429 email: kelly.fritz@nih.govkaren robinsonsmith nei - national eye institute phone: (301) 451-2020 e-mail: kyr@nei.nih.goverik edgerton national institute of arthritis and musculoskeletal and skin diseases (niams) phone: 301-594-7760 e-mail: erik.edgerton@nih.govrecently issued trans-nih policy notices may affect your application submission. a full list of policy notices published by nih is provided in the nih guide for grants and contracts. all awards are subject to the terms and conditions, cost principles, and other considerations described in the nih grants policy statement.awards are made under the authorization of sections 301 and 405 of the public health service act as amended (42 usc 241 and 284) and under federal regulations 42 cfr part 52 and 45 cfr part 75 and 2 cfr part 200.weekly toc for this announcement nih funding opportunities and noticesnote: for help accessing pdf, rtf, ms word, excel, powerpoint, audio or video files, see help downloading files.