Emergency Awards: HEAL Initiative- New Innovator Award (DP2 Clinical Trial Not Allowed)
https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/rfa-files/RFA-TR-22-013.html
national institutes of health (nih)national center for advancing translational sciences (ncats) national institute on aging (nia) national institute on alcohol abuse and alcoholism (niaaa) national institute of arthritis and musculoskeletal and skin diseases (niams) eunice kennedy shriver national institute of child health and human development (nichd) national institute of diabetes and digestive and kidney diseases (niddk) national institute of neurological disorders and stroke (ninds) national center for complementary and integrative health (nccih) national cancer institute (nci)national institute on aging (nia)national institute on alcohol abuse and alcoholism (niaaa)national institute of arthritis and musculoskeletal and skin diseases (niams)eunice kennedy shriver national institute of child health and human development (nichd)national institute of diabetes and digestive and kidney diseases (niddk)national institute of neurological disorders and stroke (ninds)national center for complementary and integrative health (nccih)national cancer institute (nci)dp2 nih director’s new innovator awardsapril 19, 2023 - this rfa has been reissued as rfa-tr-23-011april 19, 2023 - notice of termination of rfa-tr-22-013 emergency awards: heal initiative- new innovator award (dp2 clinical trial not allowed). see notice not-tr-23-013not-od-23-012 reminder: forms-h grant application forms and instructions must be used for due dates on or after january 25, 2023 - new grant application instructions now availablenot-od-22-190 - adjustments to nih and ahrq grant application due dates between september 22 and september 30, 2022see section iii. 3. additional information on eligibility.the participating nih institutes and centers are issuing this foa in response to the declared public health emergency issued by the secretary, hhs. please see determination that a public health emergency exists nationwide as the result of the opioid crisis as renewed in renewal of the determination that a public health emergency exists nationwide as the result of the continued consequences of the opioid crisis.the helping end addiction long-term (heal) new innovator award supports a postdoctoral or newly independent early stage investigator of exceptional creativity who proposes novel, original and insightful research concepts with the potential to produce a major impact, test scientific paradigms, or advance key concepts on broad, important problems in biomedical research related to pain, opioid use disorder (oud), and/or overdose (od). applications proposing unexpected convergence of disciplines, new scientific directions, or the use of novel methodologies are encouraged.15 days prior to the application due dateall applications are due by 5:00 pm local time of applicant organization.applicants are encouraged to apply early to allow adequate time to make any corrections to errors found in the application during the submission process by the due date.no late applications will be accepted for this funding opportunity announcement.not applicableit is critical that applicants follow the instructions in the research (r) instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, except where instructed to do otherwise (in this foa or in a notice from nih guide for grants and contracts).conformance to all requirements (both in the application guide and the foa) is required and strictly enforced. applicants must read and follow all application instructions in the application guide as well as any program-specific instructions noted in section iv. when the program-specific instructions deviate from those in the application guide, follow the program-specific instructions.applications that do not comply with these instructions may be delayed or not accepted for review.there are several options available to submit your application through grants.gov to nih and department of health and human services partners. you must use one of these submission options to access the application forms for this opportunity.the participating nih institutes and centers are issuing this foa in response to the declared public health emergency issued by the secretary, hhs. please see determination that a public health emergency exists nationwide as the result of the opioid crisis as renewed in renewal of the determination that a public health emergency exists nationwide as the result of the continued consequences of the opioid crisis.this funding opportunity announcement (foa) aims to support scientists with high-impact, outside the box ideas. novel treatments for pain, opioid addiction, and overdose are crucial to addressing the ongoing opioid crisis. the development of new treatment strategies is made difficult by the extraordinary complexity of both pain and addiction, consisting of physical, emotional, and social components. as such, effective treatment will require highly innovative ideas. these transformative, boundary-pushing applications are often risky or at a stage too early to fare well in the traditional peer review process. this is particularity true for applications from early-stage investigators without the benefit of an extensive track-record to which to point. in order to foster fresh and original ideas from young investigators in the heal fields, the participating nih institutes and centers propse a heal-specific new innovator award (dp2).backgroundin 2007 the nih director’s new innovator award was launched as part of the common fund’s high-risk, high-reward research program, which was created to accelerate the pace of biomedical discoveries by supporting exceptionally creative scientists with highly innovative research. the heal new innovator awards (dp2) program was developed in 2021 to support early-stage investigators with ground-breaking, highly creative research ideas in the domains of pain, opioid use disorder (oud), and/or overdose (od).this opportunity is part of the nih’s helping to end addiction long-term (heal) initiative to speed scientific solutions to the national opioid public health crisis. the nih heal initiative bolsters research across nih to (1) improve treatment for opioid misuse and addiction and (2) enhance pain management. more information about the heal initiative is available at: https://heal.nih.gov/the nih heal initiative will require a high level of coordination and sharing between investigators. it is expected that nih heal initiative awardees will cooperate and coordinate their activities after awards are made by participating in program director/principal investigator (pd/pi) meetings, including an annual heal investigators meeting, as well as other activities.objectives and scopenovel treatments for pain, opioid addiction, and overdose are crucial to addressing the ongoing opioid crisis. the development of new treatment strategies is made difficult by the extraordinary complexity of both pain and addiction, consisting of physical, emotional, and social components. as such, effective treatment will require highly innovative ideas.the nih director's new innovator award addresses two important goals: stimulating highly innovative research and supporting promising early-stage investigators. early-stage investigators may have exceptionally innovative research ideas, but not the preliminary data required to fare well in the traditional nih peer review system. as part of nih's commitment to increasing opportunities for early-stage investigators, it has created the nih director's new innovator award to support outstandingly creative early-stage investigators who propose highly innovative research projects with the potential for unusually high impact. this award complements ongoing efforts by the nih and its institutes and centers to fund early-stage investigators through r01 grants and other mechanisms. the definition of early-stage investigator is provided here.the nih director's new innovator award is different from traditional nih grants in several aspects. it is designed specifically to support unusually creative investigators with highly innovative research ideas at an early stage of their career when they may lack the preliminary data required for a conventional r01 grant application. the emphasis is on innovation and creativity; preliminary data are not required but may be included in the application. the review process emphasizes the individual’s creativity, the innovativeness of the research approaches, and the potential of the project, if successful, to have a significant impact on an important biomedical or behavioral heal-relevant research problem.enhancing diversityevery facet of the united states scientific research enterprise—from basic laboratory research to clinical and translational research to policy formation–requires superior intellect, creativity and a wide range of skill sets and viewpoints. nih's ability to help ensure that the nation remains a global leader in scientific discovery and innovation is dependent upon a pool of highly talented scientists from diverse backgrounds who will help to further nih's mission.research shows that diverse teams working together and capitalizing on innovative ideas and distinct perspectives outperform homogenous teams. scientists and trainees from diverse backgrounds and life experiences bring different perspectives, creativity, and individual enterprise to address complex scientific problems. there are many benefits that flow from a diverse nih-supported scientific workforce, including: fostering scientific innovation, enhancing global competitiveness, contributing to robust learning environments, improving the quality of the research, advancing the likelihood that underserved or health disparity populations participate in, and benefit from health research, and enhancing public trust. in spite of tremendous advancements in scientific research, information, educational and research opportunities are not equally available to all. nih encourages institutions to diversify their student and faculty populations to enhance the participation of individuals from groups that are underrepresented in the biomedical, clinical, behavioral and social sciences. see, notice of nih's interest in diversity, not-od-20-031. the overarching goal of this foa is to enhance the research workforce by supporting investigators from diverse backgrounds, including those from groups that have been shown to be nationally underrepresented in the biomedical workforce.the participating nih institutes and centers are interested in applications with the potential to produce a major impact, test scientific paradigms, or advance key concepts on broad, important problems in biomedical research related to pain, opioid use disorder (oud), and/or overdose (od). applications proposing unexpected convergence of disciplines, new scientific directions, or the use of novel methodologies are encouraged. in addition, specific interests are listed below.information relevant to specific institutes/centers/offices:nia specific language: the national institute on aging (nia) is interested in applications from early stage investigators who propose highly innovative research on novel pain management approaches for older adults. potential areas of interest include, but are not limited to, pharmacological and non-pharmacological treatment strategies that take into account the complexities of effective pain management and end-of-life care in the context of aging (e.g., multi-morbidities, polypharmacy) as well as other innovative treatment strategies that reduce pain in older adults. nia intends to administer applications under this foa that are consistent with nia’s mission of improving the health and well-being of older adults through research. nia strongly encourages investigators to discuss their research interests with nia program staff prior to submitting their grant applicationnichd: eunice kennedy shriver national institute of child health and human development (nichd) is particularly interested in applications relevant to (a) persistent pain of women with endometriosis, chronic pelvic pain, vulvodynia/vestibulodynia, dysmenorrhea, and other gynecologic pain syndromes, (b) pain (acute and chronic) after minor and major surgical procedures, and (c) pain conditions (acute and chronic) in children, women of reproductive age, pregnant and lactating individuals, people with intellectual and physical disabilities, and health disparity populations (i.e. racial/ethnic groups, sexual and gender minorities, underserved rural and socioeconomically disadvantaged populations, people with limited english proficiency).the following will be considered non-responsive under this foa:see section viii. other information for award authorities and regulations.grant: a support mechanism providing money, property, or both to an eligible entity to carry out an approved project or activity.the oer glossary and the sf424 (r&r) application guide provide details on these application types. only those application types listed here are allowed for this foa.the oer glossary and the sf424 (r&r) application guide provide details on these application types. only those application types listed here are allowed for this foa.not allowed: only accepting applications that do not propose clinical trials.need help determining whether you are doing a clinical trial?need help determining whether you are doing a clinical trial?the nih heal initiative intends to commit approximately $7.2 million for approximately 3 awards in fy 2022. the number of awards is contingent upon nih appropriations and the submission of a sufficient number of meritorious applications.future year amounts will depend on annual appropriations.the combined budget for direct costs for the three-year project period may not exceed $1,500,000. no more than $500,000 may be requested in any single year.the total project period may not exceed three years.nih grants policies as described in the nih grants policy statement will apply to the applications submitted and awards made from this foa.1. eligible applicantshigher education institutionsthe following types of higher education institutions are always encouraged to apply for nih support as public or private institutions of higher education:nonprofits other than institutions of higher educationfor-profit organizationslocal governmentsfederal governmentotherothernon-domestic (non-u.s.) entities (foreign institutions) are not eligible to apply.non-domestic (non-u.s.) components of u.s. organizations are not eligible to apply.foreign components, as defined in the nih grants policy statement, are not allowed.applicant organizationsapplicant organizations must complete and maintain the following registrations as described in the sf 424 (r&r) application guide to be eligible to apply for or receive an award. all registrations must be completed prior to the application being submitted. registration can take 6 weeks or more, so applicants should begin the registration process as soon as possible. the nih policy on late submission of grant applications states that failure to complete registrations in advance of a due date is not a valid reason for a late submission.program directors/principal investigators (pd(s)/pi(s))all pd(s)/pi(s) must have an era commons account. pd(s)/pi(s) should work with their organizational officials to either create a new account or to affiliate their existing account with the applicant organization in era commons. if the pd/pi is also the organizational signing official, they must have two distinct era commons accounts, one for each role. obtaining an era commons account can take up to 2 weeks.any individual(s) with the skills, knowledge, and resources necessary to carry out the proposed research as the program director(s)/principal investigator(s) (pd(s)/pi(s)) is invited to work with his/her organization to develop an application for support. individuals from underrepresented racial and ethnic groups as well as individuals with disabilities are always encouraged to apply for nih support. see, reminder: notice of nih's encouragement of applications supporting individuals from ethnic and racial groups as well as individuals with disabilities, not-od-22-019.applicants must meet the definition of an early-stage investigator (esi) at the time of application submission.. an esi is a new investigator (defined as a pd/pi who has not competed successfully for a significant nih independent research award) who is within 10 years of completing his/her terminal research degree or end of post-graduate clinical training. see the office of extramural research website for a complete list of nih awards that do not disqualify a pd/pi as a new investigator and for frequently asked questions about the nih early stage investigator (esi) policy.an extension to the 10-year period may be granted under certain circumstances (e.g., childbirth, family care responsibilities, clinical loan repayment requirements, disability or illness, natural or other disaster, etc.). an online video tutorial is available for more information. it may take several weeks for the review process for the request, so applicants should plan accordingly. note: if an applicant is not identified as an esi in the era commons, it may result in the application not being reviewed. applicants are responsible for reviewing and/or updating their degree information in their era commons account in a timely fashion.applicants must hold an independent research position at a domestic (u.s.) institution prior to the award. for this foa, an “independent research position” is a position that automatically confers eligibility to the investigator (based on institutional policy) to apply for r01 grants with appropriate institutional commitment of facilities for the conduct of the proposed research. investigators still in training or mentored status (such as postdoctoral fellows) are not eligible to apply unless they have a written commitment from the institution stating they will be in an independent faculty position prior to the award. the commitment is certified by the institution's submission of the application.applicants may submit or have an nih r01 or other equivalent grant application pending concurrently with their nih director’s new innovator award application if it does not overlap substantially with their new innovator award application. however, if that pending grant becomes active prior to the nih director’s new innovator award, the applicant is no longer eligible to receive the new innovator award.pd/pis are required to commit at least three person-months (25%) of their research effort each year to activities supported by the new innovator award.2. cost sharingthis foa does not require cost sharing as defined in the nih grants policy statement.3. additional information on eligibilitynumber of applicationsapplicant organizations may submit more than one application, provided that each application is scientifically distinct.the nih will not accept duplicate or highly overlapping applications under review at the same time, per 2.3.7.4 submission of resubmission application. this means that the nih will not accept:1. requesting an application packagethe application forms package specific to this opportunity must be accessed through assist, grants.gov workspace or an institutional system-to-system solution. links to apply using assist or grants.gov workspace are available in part 1 of this foa. see your administrative office for instructions if you plan to use an institutional system-to-system solution.2. content and form of application submissionletter of intentalthough a letter of intent is not required, is not binding, and does not enter into the review of a subsequent application, the information that it contains allows ic staff to estimate the potential review workload and plan the review.by the date listed in part 1. overview information, prospective applicants are asked to submit a letter of intent that includes the following information:the letter of intent should be sent to: ncats letters of intent 301-827-9549 ncatslettersofintent@mail.nih.govall page limitations described in the sf424 application guide and the table of page limits must be followed.the following section supplements the instructions found in the sf424 (r&r) application guide and should be used for preparing an application to this foa.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed,with the following additional instructions: bibliography & references cited: do not use. provide essential reference citations in the essay. facilities & other resources: upload a brief statement (1-page maximum) of the facilities to be used for the conduct of the research. equipment: do not use. other attachments: do not use.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.r&r budgetall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed,with the additional instructions below.although annual budgets are required in the application, the total funding will be committed in year one with subsequent year funding restricted pending nih review and acceptance of the annual rppr.the combined budget for direct costs for the three-year project period may not exceed $1,500,000. no more than $500,000 may be requested in any single year.detailed budget pages should be submitted for each year of the project. a total requested direct cost amount for each annual budget period, including requests for equipment purchase, is requiredsome basic information must be completed for nih to successfully process the budget form. for each of the three annual budget periods:all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed, with the following additional instructions:specific aims: do not use research strategy: upload essay here. submit an essay that addresses: (1) the significance and potential impact of the project, (2) what makes the approaches exceptionally innovative, (3) how risks and challenges will be addressed, and (4) the applicant’s qualifications for this award, without duplicating information in the biosketch. the description of the scientific plan should be written at a level appropriate for reviewers who are broadly knowledgeable but may not be directly involved in the proposed area of research. to focus the essay on the goals of the new innovator award and the review criteria, presenting the proposed research as a series of specific aims is discouraged. do not provide a detailed experimental plan. preliminary data are allowed but not required. the essay should include the following sections within the page limit, in the following order, with the headings shown: project description: describe the scientific challenge or opportunity that you propose to address, its importance, and how addressing this would have a major impact on a broad area of research relevant to nih. provide the scientific context by summarizing the current landscape of the field and how your research, if successful, would extend substantially beyond current boundaries. describe the overall approach to be taken. state prominently that to comply with the foa, a detailed experimental plan and extensive preliminary data are not being provided. however, the essay must be written such that reviewers have a clear sense of what is being proposed to be done and why and are convinced that the research will be performed in a robust and rigorous manner. innovativeness: state clearly and concisely what makes your project unusually innovative in the context of the current state-of-the-art of the field. since the approaches may be highly innovative, and hence risky, what will you do if these approaches are not successful? investigator qualifications: provide evidence to support your claim of innovativeness and creativity in your prior research. for example, what personal qualities and experiences demonstrate your inclination to question paradigms and work with intellectual uncertainties, develop unique collaborations, integrate diverse sources of information, or develop novel approaches when new challenges or opportunities arise? suitability for the new innovator award program: why is the planned research uniquely suited to the new innovator award rather than a more “traditional” grant mechanism? statement of research effort commitment: a statement must be included that, if chosen to receive an award, the applicant will commit a minimum of three person-months (25%) of his/her research effort to the project supported by the new innovator award. note: any bibliographic citations provided must fit within the ten-page limit. to aid in the assessment of scientific rigor, inclusion of the most critical citations is encouraged. figures and illustrations may be included but must also fit within the ten-page limit. letters of collaboration will not be accepted. information on collaborators may be included in the essay and their names and affiliations should be listed in the phs assignment request form.resource sharing plan: individuals are required to comply with the instructions for the resource sharing plans as provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.heal data sharingnih intends to maximize the impact of heal initiative-supported projects through broad and rapid data sharing. consistent with the heal initiative public access and data sharing policy (https://heal.nih.gov/about/public-access-data), all applications, regardless of the amount of direct costs requested for any one year, are required to include a data management and sharing plan outlining how scientific data and any accompanying metadata will be managed and shared. the plan should describe data types, file formats, submission timelines, and standards used in collecting or processing the data. it is expected that data generated by heal initiative-funded projects will be submitted to study-appropriate domain-specific or generalist repositories in consultation with the heal data stewardship group to ensure the data is accessible via the heal initiative data ecosystem.to maximize discoverability and value of heal datasets and studies, and facilitate data integration and collaboration, applications submitted in response to this foa are strongly encouraged to incorporate standards and resources where applicable:the nih notices referenced below provide additional nih guidance that should be considered in developing a strong data management and sharing plan. the list is instructive but not comprehensive.recipients conducting research that includes collection of genomic data should incorporate requirements under the nih genomic data sharing policy (not-od-14-124, not-od-15-086).when involving human subjects research, clinical research, and/or nih-defined clinical trials (and when applicable, clinical trials research experience) follow all instructions for the phs human subjects and clinical trials information form in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, with the following additional instructions:if you answered “yes” to the question “are human subjects involved?” on the r&r other project information form, you must include at least one human subjects study record using the study record: phs human subjects and clinical trials information form or delayed onset study record.study record: phs human subjects and clinical trials informationall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.delayed onset studynote: delayed onset does not apply to a study that can be described but will not start immediately (i.e., delayed start).all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.since letters of collaboration and biosketches of collaborators are not allowed, provide the names of collaborators and their institutional affiliations.3. unique entity identifier and system for award management (sam)see part 1. section iii.1 for information regarding the requirement for obtaining a unique entity identifier and for completing and maintaining active registrations in system for award management (sam), nato commercial and government entity (ncage) code (if applicable), era commons, and grants.gov.part i. overview information contains information about key dates and times. applicants are encouraged to submit applications before the due date to ensure they have time to make any application corrections that might be necessary for successful submission. when a submission date falls on a weekend or federal holiday, the application deadline is automatically extended to the next business day.organizations must submit applications to grants.gov (the online portal to find and apply for grants across all federal agencies). applicants must then complete the submission process by tracking the status of the application in the era commons, nih’s electronic system for grants administration. nih and grants.gov systems check the application against many of the application instructions upon submission. errors must be corrected and a changed/corrected application must be submitted to grants.gov on or before the application due date and time. if a changed/corrected application is submitted after the deadline, the application will be considered late. applications that miss the due date and time are subjected to the nih policy on late application submission.applicants are responsible for viewing their application before the due date in the era commons to ensure accurate and successful submission.information on the submission process and a definition of on-time submission are provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.5. intergovernmental review (e.o. 12372)this initiative is not subject to intergovernmental review.all nih awards are subject to the terms and conditions, cost principles, and other considerations described in the nih grants policy statement.pre-award costs are allowable only as described in the nih grants policy statement.applications must be submitted electronically following the instructions described in the sf424 (r&r) application guide. paper applications will not be accepted.applicants must complete all required registrations before the application due date. section iii. eligibility information contains information about registration.for assistance with your electronic application or for more information on the electronic submission process, visit how to apply – application guide. if you encounter a system issue beyond your control that threatens your ability to complete the submission process on-time, you must follow the dealing with system issues guidance. for assistance with application submission, contact the application submission contacts in section vii.important reminders:all pd(s)/pi(s) must include their era commons id in the credential fieldof the senior/key person profile form. failure to register in the commons and to include a valid pd/pi commons id in the credential field will prevent the successful submission of an electronic application to nih. see section iii of this foa for information on registration requirements.the applicant organization must ensure that the unique entity identifier (duns number or uei as required) provided on the application is the same number used in the organization’s profile in the era commons and for the system for award management. additional information may be found in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.see more tips for avoiding common errors.upon receipt, applications will be evaluated for completeness and compliance with application instructions by the center for scientific review and responsiveness by components of participating organizations, nih. applications that are incomplete, non-compliant and/or nonresponsive will not be reviewed.in order to expedite review, applicants are requested to notify the ncats referral office by email at ncatsreferral@mail.nih.gov when the application has been submitted. please include the foa number and title, pd/pi name, and title of the application.not applicable1. criteriaonly the review criteria described below will be considered in the review process.review processapplications will be evaluated for scientific and technical merit by an appropriate merit review panel convened by nih staff, in accordance with the review criteria specified in the foa.the nih director's new innovator award supports innovative research that has the potential to produce a major impact on a broad area of biomedical or behavioral research. a new innovator award grant application does not have extensive background material, and the essay focuses on the goals of the new innovator award. preliminary data are not required but may be included. accordingly, reviewers will provide comments emphasizing the following: 1) the importance of the scientific problem and the potential impact of the research, 2) the novelty and innovativeness of the approach, and 3) evidence of the applicant's potential for creative and innovative research as an early-stage investigator.reviewers will provide an overall assessment score to reflect their assessment of the likelihood for the project to exert a sustained, powerful influence on the research field(s) involved, in consideration of the following review criteria and additional review criteria (as applicable for the project proposed).scored review criteriareviewers will consider each of the review criteria below in the determination of scientific merit. an application does not need to be strong in all categories to be judged likely to have major scientific impact. for example, a project that by its nature is not innovative may be essential to advance a field.significancedoes the project address an important problem or a critical barrier to progress in the field? is the prior research that serves as the key support for the proposed project rigorous? if the aims of the project are achieved, how will scientific knowledge, technical capability, and/or clinical practice be improved? how will successful completion of the aims change the concepts, methods, technologies, treatments, services, or preventative interventions that drive this field?specific to this foa:investigator(s)are the pd(s)/pi(s), collaborators, and other researchers well suited to the project? do they have appropriate experience and training? if established, have they demonstrated an ongoing record of accomplishments that have advanced their field(s)? if the project is collaborative or multi-pd/pi, do the investigators have complementary and integrated expertise; are their leadership approach, governance and organizational structure appropriate for the project?specific to this foa:what is the potential for the investigator to lead research, despite its inherent risks, that is groundbreaking and broadly impactful?innovationdoes the application challenge and seek to shift current research or clinical practice paradigms by utilizing novel theoretical concepts, approaches or methodologies, instrumentation, or interventions? are the concepts, approaches or methodologies, instrumentation, or interventions novel to one field of research or novel in a broad sense? is a refinement, improvement, or new application of theoretical concepts, approaches or methodologies, instrumentation, or interventions proposed?approachare the overall strategy, methodology, and analyses well-reasoned and appropriate to accomplish the specific aims of the project? have the investigators included plans to address weaknesses in the rigor of prior research that serves as the key support for the proposed project? have the investigators presented strategies to ensure a robust and unbiased approach, as appropriate for the work proposed? are potential problems, alternative strategies, and benchmarks for success presented? if the project is in the early stages of development, will the strategy establish feasibility and will particularly risky aspects be managed? have the investigators presented adequate plans to address relevant biological variables, such as sex, for studies in vertebrate animals or human subjects? for this particular announcement, note the following: how well does the data management and sharing plan address the requirements of the heal public access and data sharing policy?if the project involves human subjects and/or nih-defined clinical research, are the plans to address 1) the protection of human subjects from research risks, and 2) inclusion (or exclusion) of individuals on the basis of sex/gender, race, and ethnicity, as well as the inclusion or exclusion of individuals of all ages (including children and older adults), justified in terms of the scientific goals and research strategy proposed?environmentwill the scientific environment in which the work will be done contribute to the probability of success? are the institutional support, equipment and other physical resources available to the investigators adequate for the project proposed? will the project benefit from unique features of the scientific environment, subject populations, or collaborative arrangements?additional review criteriaas applicable for the project proposed, reviewers will evaluate the following additional items while determining scientific and technical merit, and in providing an overall assessment score, but will not give separate scores for these items.protections for human subjectsfor research that involves human subjects but does not involve one of the categories of research that are exempt under 45 cfr part 46, the committee will evaluate the justification for involvement of human subjects and the proposed protections from research risk relating to their participation according to the following five review criteria: 1) risk to subjects, 2) adequacy of protection against risks, 3) potential benefits to the subjects and others, 4) importance of the knowledge to be gained, and 5) data and safety monitoring for clinical trials.for research that involves human subjects and meets the criteria for one or more of the categories of research that are exempt under 45 cfr part 46, the committee will evaluate: 1) the justification for the exemption, 2) human subjects involvement and characteristics, and 3) sources of materials. for additional information on review of the human subjects section, please refer to the guidelines for the review of human subjects.inclusion of women, minorities, and individuals across the lifespanwhen the proposed project involves human subjects and/or nih-defined clinical research, the committee will evaluate the proposed plans for the inclusion (or exclusion) of individuals on the basis of sex/gender, race, and ethnicity, as well as the inclusion (or exclusion) of individuals of all ages (including children and older adults) to determine if it is justified in terms of the scientific goals and research strategy proposed. for additional information on review of the inclusion section, please refer to the guidelines for the review of inclusion in clinical research.vertebrate animalsthe committee will evaluate the involvement of live vertebrate animals as part of the scientific assessment according to the following criteria: (1) description of proposed procedures involving animals, including species, strains, ages, sex, and total number to be used; (2) justifications for the use of animals versus alternative models and for the appropriateness of the species proposed; (3) interventions to minimize discomfort, distress, pain and injury; and (4) justification for euthanasia method if not consistent with the avma guidelines for the euthanasia of animals. reviewers will assess the use of chimpanzees as they would any other application proposing the use of vertebrate animals. for additional information on review of the vertebrate animals section, please refer to the worksheet for review of the vertebrate animal section.biohazardsreviewers will assess whether materials or procedures proposed are potentially hazardous to research personnel and/or the environment, and if needed, determine whether adequate protection is proposed.resubmissionsnot applicable.renewalsnot applicable.revisionsnot applicable.as applicable for the project proposed, reviewers will consider each of the following items, but will not give scores for these items, and should not consider them in providing an overall assessment score.applications from foreign organizationsnot applicable.select agent researchreviewers will assess the information provided in this section of the application, including 1) the select agent(s) to be used in the proposed research, 2) the registration status of all entities where select agent(s) will be used, 3) the procedures that will be used to monitor possession use and transfer of select agent(s), and 4) plans for appropriate biosafety, biocontainment, and security of the select agent(s).resource sharing plansreviewers will comment on whether the following resource sharing plans, or the rationale for not sharing the following types of resources, are reasonable: (1) data sharing plan; (2) sharing model organisms; and (3) genomic data sharing plan (gds).authentication of key biological and/or chemical resources:for projects involving key biological and/or chemical resources, reviewers will comment on the brief plans proposed for identifying and ensuring the validity of those resources.budget and period of supportreviewers will consider whether the budget and the requested period of support are fully justified and reasonable in relation to the proposed research.2. review and selection processapplications will be evaluated for scientific and technical merit by (an) appropriate review group of nih staff using the stated review criteria.applications may undergo a selection process in which only those applications deemed to have the highest scientific and technical merit (generally the top half of applications under review) will be discussed and assigned an overall assessment score.appeals of initial merit review will not be accepted for applications submitted in response to this foa.applications will be assigned on the basis of established phs referral guidelines to the appropriate nih institute or center. applications will compete for available funds with all other recommended applications submitted in response to this foa. the following will be considered in making funding decisions:3. anticipated announcement and award datesnot applicable.1. award noticesif the application is under consideration for funding, nih will request "just-in-time" information from the applicant as described in the nih grants policy statement.a formal notification in the form of a notice of award (noa) will be provided to the applicant organization for successful applications. the noa signed by the grants management officer is the authorizing document and will be sent via email to the recipient's business official.recipients must comply with any funding restrictions described in section iv.5. funding restrictions. selection of an application for award is not an authorization to begin performance. any costs incurred before receipt of the noa are at the recipient's risk. these costs may be reimbursed only to the extent considered allowable pre-award costs.any application awarded in response to this foa will be subject to terms and conditions found on the award conditions and information for nih grants website. this includes any recent legislation and policy applicable to awards that is highlighted on this website.institutional review board or independent ethics committee approval: recipient institutions must ensure that protocols are reviewed by their irb or iec. to help ensure the safety of participants enrolled in nih-funded studies, the recipient must provide nih copies of documents related to all major changes in the status of ongoing protocols.2. administrative and national policy requirementsall nih grant and cooperative agreement awards include the nih grants policy statement as part of the noa. for these terms of award, see the nih grants policy statement part ii: terms and conditions of nih grant awards, subpart a: general and part ii: terms and conditions of nih grant awards, subpart b: terms and conditions for specific types of grants, recipients, and activities, including of note, but not limited to:if a recipient is successful and receives a notice of award, in accepting the award, the recipient agrees that any activities under the award are subject to all provisions currently in effect or implemented during the period of the award, other department regulations and policies in effect at the time of the award, and applicable statutory provisions.should the applicant organization successfully compete for an award, recipients of federal financial assistance (ffa) from hhs must administer their programs in compliance with federal civil rights laws that prohibit discrimination on the basis of race, color, national origin, disability, age and, in some circumstances, religion, conscience, and sex (including gender identify, sexual orientation, and pregnancy). this includes ensuring programs are accessible to persons with limited english proficiency and persons with disabilities. the hhs office for civil rights provides guidance on complying with civil rights laws enforced by hhs. please see https://www.hhs.gov/civil-rights/for-providers/provider-obligations/index.html and https://www.hhs.gov/civil-rights/for-individuals/nondiscrimination/index.htmlhhs recognizes that research projects are often limited in scope for many reasons that are nondiscriminatory, such as the principal investigator’s scientific interest, funding limitations, recruitment requirements, and other considerations. thus, criteria in research protocols that target or exclude certain populations are warranted where nondiscriminatory justifications establish that such criteria are appropriate with respect to the health or safety of the subjects, the scientific study design, or the purpose of the research. for additional guidance regarding how the provisions apply to nih grant programs, please contact the scientific/research contact that is identified in section vii under agency contacts of this foa.please contact the hhs office for civil rights for more information about obligations and prohibitions under federal civil rights laws at https://www.hhs.gov/ocr/about-us/contact-us/index.html or call 1-800-368-1019 or tdd 1-800-537-7697.in accordance with the statutory provisions contained in section 872 of the duncan hunter national defense authorization act of fiscal year 2009 (public law 110-417), nih awards will be subject to the federal awardee performance and integrity information system (fapiis) requirements. fapiis requires federal award making officials to review and consider information about an applicant in the designated integrity and performance system (currently fapiis) prior to making an award. an applicant, at its option, may review information in the designated integrity and performance systems accessible through fapiis and comment on any information about itself that a federal agency previously entered and is currently in fapiis. the federal awarding agency will consider any comments by the applicant, in addition to other information in fapiis, in making a judgement about the applicant’s integrity, business ethics, and record of performance under federal awards when completing the review of risk posed by applicants as described in 45 cfr part 75.205 and 2 cfr part 200.206 “federal awarding agency review of risk posed by applicants.” this provision will apply to all nih grants and cooperative agreements except fellowships.not applicable3. reportingprogress reports for multi-year funded awards are due annually on or before the anniversary of the budget/project period start date of award. the reporting period for multi-year funded award progress report is the calendar year preceding the anniversary date of the award. information on the content of the progress report and instructions on how to submit the report using the rppr are posted at http://grants.nih.gov/grants/policy/myf.htma final rppr, invention statement, and the expenditure data portion of the federal financial report are required for closeout of an award, as described in the nih grants policy statement. nih foas outline intended research goals and objectives. post award, nih will review and measure performance based on the details and outcomes that are shared within the rppr, as described at 45 cfr part 75.301 and 2 cfr part 200.301.the federal funding accountability and transparency act of 2006 (transparency act), includes a requirement for recipients of federal grants to report information about first-tier subawards and executive compensation under federal assistance awards issued in fy2011 or later. all recipients of applicable nih grants and cooperative agreements are required to report to the federal subaward reporting system (fsrs) available at www.fsrs.gov on all subawards over $25,000. see the nih grants policy statement for additional information on this reporting requirement.in accordance with the regulatory requirements provided at 45 cfr 75.113 and appendix xii to 45 cfr part 75, recipients that have currently active federal grants, cooperative agreements, and procurement contracts from all federal awarding agencies with a cumulative total value greater than $10,000,000 for any period of time during the period of performance of a federal award, must report and maintain the currency of information reported in the system for award management (sam) about civil, criminal, and administrative proceedings in connection with the award or performance of a federal award that reached final disposition within the most recent five-year period. the recipient must also make semiannual disclosures regarding such proceedings. proceedings information will be made publicly available in the designated integrity and performance system (currently fapiis). this is a statutory requirement under section 872 of public law 110-417, as amended (41 u.s.c. 2313). as required by section 3010 of public law 111-212, all information posted in the designated integrity and performance system on or after april 15, 2011, except past performance reviews required for federal procurement contracts, will be publicly available. full reporting requirements and procedures are found in appendix xii to 45 cfr part 75 – award term and conditions for recipient integrity and performance matters.we encourage inquiries concerning this funding opportunity and welcome the opportunity to answer questions from potential applicants.era service desk (questions regarding assist, era commons, application errors and warnings, documenting system problems that threaten submission by the due date, and post-submission issues)finding help online: http://grants.nih.gov/support/ (preferred method of contact) telephone: 301-402-7469 or 866-504-9552 (toll free)general grants information (questions regarding application instructions, application processes, and nih grant resources) email: grantsinfo@nih.gov (preferred method of contact) telephone: 301-637-3015grants.gov customer support (questions regarding grants.gov registration and workspace) contact center telephone: 800-518-4726 email: support@grants.govsteven pittenger, ph.d. national center for advancing translational sciences (ncats) telephone: 301-827-5810 email: steven.pittenger@nih.govhye-sook kim ph.d. national center for complementary and integrative health (nccih) phone: 301-827-6910 email: hye-sook.kim@nih.govrebecca lenzi, ph.d. national institute of arthritis and musculoskeletal and skin diseases (niams) phone: 301-402-4735 e-mail: rebecca.lenzi@nih.govdana k. andersen, m.d. national institute of diabetes and digestive and kidney diseases (niddk) phone: 410-868-0638 e-mail: dana.andersen@nih.govdevon oskvig, ph.d. national institute on aging (nia) phone: 301-827-5899 email: devon.oskvig@nih.govjenica dawn patterson national institute on alcohol abuse and alcoholism (niaaa) phone: 301-827-6166 e-mail: jenica.patterson@nih.govrachel altshuler, ph.d. national cancer institute (nci) telephone: 240-276-5873 email: rachel.altshuler@nih.govnakia c. brown, ph.d. national center for advancing translational sciences (ncats) phone: 301-827-3484 e-mail: nakia.brown@nih.govleslie le national center for advancing translational sciences (ncats) telephone: 301-435-0856 email: leleslie@mail.nih.govshelley headley national center for complementary and integrative health (nccih) phone: 301-594-3788 email: shelley.headley@nih.goverik edgerton national institute of arthritis and musculoskeletal and skin diseases (niams) phone: 301-594-7760 e-mail: erik.edgerton@nih.govelizabeth gutierrez national institute of diabetes and digestive and kidney diseases (niddk) phone: 301-594-8844 e-mail: gutierrezel@mail.nih.govjeni smits national institute on aging (nia) phone: 301-827-4020 email: jeni.smits@nih.govjudy fox national institute on alcohol abuse and alcoholism (niaaa) phone: (301) 443-4704 e-mail: jfox@mail.nih.govsean hine national cancer institute (nci) telephone: 240-276-6291 email: hines@mail.nih.gov???????recently issued trans-nih policy notices may affect your application submission. a full list of policy notices published by nih is provided in the nih guide for grants and contracts. all awards are subject to the terms and conditions, cost principles, and other considerations described in the nih grants policy statement.awards are made under the authorization of sections 301 and 405 of the public health service act as amended (42 usc 241 and 284) and under federal regulations 42 cfr part 52 and 45 cfr part 75.weekly toc for this announcement nih funding opportunities and noticesnote: for help accessing pdf, rtf, ms word, excel, powerpoint, audio or video files, see help downloading files.