HEAL Initiative: Development of Therapies and Technologies Directed at Enhanced Pain Management (R41/R42 Clinical Trial Not Allowed)
https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/rfa-files/RFA-NS-23-007.html
national institutes of health (nih)national institute of neurological disorders and stroke (ninds) national heart, lung, and blood institute (nhlbi) national institute on aging (nia) national institute on alcohol abuse and alcoholism (niaaa) national institute of arthritis and musculoskeletal and skin diseases (niams) eunice kennedy shriver national institute of child health and human development (nichd) national institute of general medical sciences (nigms) national institute of mental health (nimh) national center for complementary and integrative health (nccih) national center for advancing translational sciences (ncats) national cancer institute (nci) national institute of biomedical imaging and bioengineering (nibib) all applications to this funding opportunity announcement should fall within the mission of the institutes/centers. the following nih offices may co-fund applications assigned to those institutes/centers. division of program coordination, planning and strategic initiatives, office of research infrastructure programs (orip)national heart, lung, and blood institute (nhlbi)national institute on aging (nia)national institute on alcohol abuse and alcoholism (niaaa)national institute of arthritis and musculoskeletal and skin diseases (niams)eunice kennedy shriver national institute of child health and human development (nichd)national institute of general medical sciences (nigms)national institute of mental health (nimh)national center for complementary and integrative health (nccih)national center for advancing translational sciences (ncats)national cancer institute (nci)national institute of biomedical imaging and bioengineering (nibib)all applications to this funding opportunity announcement should fall within the mission of the institutes/centers. the following nih offices may co-fund applications assigned to those institutes/centers.division of program coordination, planning and strategic initiatives, office of research infrastructure programs (orip)r41/r42 small business technology transfer (sttr) grant - phase i, phase iisee notices of special interest associated with this funding opportunityfebruary 23, 2023 - notice of change to minimum performance standards for sbir and sttr applicants. see notice not-od-23-092.january 4, 2023 - notice of nibib specific interests and guidance in rfa-ns-23-007 "heal initiative: development of therapies and technologies directed at enhanced pain management (r41/r42 clinical trial not allowed). see notice not-eb-22-013september 28, 2022 - notice of nhlbi specific interests and guidance in rfa-ns-23-007 "heal initiative: development of therapies and technologies directed at enhanced pain management (r41/r42 clinical trial not allowed). see notice not-hl-22-051not-od-22-190 - adjustments to nih and ahrq grant application due dates between september 22 and september 30, 2022see section iii. 3. additional information on eligibility.the purpose of this funding opportunity announcement (foa) aims to speed scientific solutions to stem the national opioid public health crisis by supporting the development of therapies and technologies directed at enhanced pain management through the small business technology transfer (sttr) program. this foa is focused on applications directed at improving pain treatment, including the development of new non-addictive medications and devices and objective pain measurement. in addition, nih is interested in new screening tools and models focused specifically on pain and development of pain therapies.30 days prior to the application due dateall applications are due by 5:00 pm local time of applicant organization.applicants are encouraged to apply early to allow adequate time to make any corrections to errors found in the application during the submission process by the due date.not applicableit is critical that applicants follow the sbir/sttr (b) instructions in the sf424 (r&r) sbir/sttr application guide, except where instructed to do otherwise (in this foa or in a notice from the nih guide for grants and contracts).conformance to all requirements (both in the application guide and the foa) is required and strictly enforced. applicants must read and follow all application instructions in the application guide as well as any program-specific instructions noted in section iv. when the program-specific instructions deviate from those in the application guide, follow the program-specific instructions.applications that do not comply with these instructions may be delayed or not accepted for review.there are several options available to submit your application through grants.gov to nih and department of health and human services partners. you must use one of these submission options to access the application forms for this opportunity.purposethe purpose of this funding opportunity announcement (foa) aims to speed scientific solutions to stem the national opioid public health crisis by supporting the development of therapies and technologies directed at enhanced pain management through the small business technology transfer (sttr) program. specifically, this foa is focused on applications directed at improving pain measurement and treatment.backgroundthis foa is part of the nih heal (helping to end addiction long-term) initiative—an aggressive, trans-agency effort to speed scientific solutions to stem the national opioid public health crisis. more information about the heal initiative is available at: https://heal.nih.gov.more than 25 million americans suffer from chronic pain, a highly debilitating medical condition that is complex and lacks effective treatments. in recent decades, there has been an overreliance on opioids for chronic pain despite their poor ability to improve function. this contributed to a significant and alarming epidemic of opioid overdose deaths and addictions. innovative scientific solutions to develop alternative treatment options are thus critically needed.research objectivesa. scientific/technical scopeapplications received under this foa should have a primary focus on enhancing pain management, such as through measurement of pain-related outcomes. applications must fall within the scope of the heal initiative, including but not limited to:the following activities are not within scope of this foa:while these activities are not within scope of this foa, they may fall within scope of other funding opportunities through the heal initiative and/or nih sttr. for additional funding opportunities under the heal initiative, please see: https://heal.nih.gov/funding/open. for additional funding opportunities under nih sttr, please see: https://seed.nih.gov/small-business-funding/find-funding/sbir-sttr-funding-opportunities. the nih clinical trial definition can be found here: https://grants.nih.gov/policy/clinical-trials/definition.htm.b. nih institute and center interests and guidancenational institute of biomedical imaging and bioengineering (nibib)the mission of the national institute of biomedical imaging and bioengineering (nibib) is to improve human health by leading the development and accelerating the application of biomedical technologies. the institute is committed to integrating engineering with the physical and life sciences to advance basic research and medical care. the small business program at the nibib helps to achieve this mission by supporting innovative technologies to improve the prevention, detection, treatment, and monitoring of disease and disorders through various stages of commercial research and development.?the nibib welcomes sttr applications from small businesses proposing ideas relevant to its scientific program areas.?nibib supports research from early-stage technology development through first in human demonstrations and early feasibility clinical studies.national heart lung and blood institute (nhlbi)the national heart, lung, and blood institute (nhlbi) provides global leadership for a research, training, and education program to promote the prevention and treatment of heart, lung, blood, and sleep (hlbs) diseases and enhance the health of all individuals so that they can live longer and more fulfilling lives. the nhlbi is interested in funding technologies for pain management in patients with conditions that include, but are not limited to, the following: sickle cell disease, hemophilia, deep venous thrombosis, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, cystic fibrosis, primary ciliary dyskinesia, sarcoidosis, acute lung injury, interstitial lung disease, angina, vasculitis, pericarditis severe chronic cough, peripheral arterial disease, and lymphedema. the nhlbi is also interested in supporting the development of pain management strategies for patients undergoing cardiac or lung transplant surgery, mechanical ventilation, tube thoracostomy, airway clearance therapy, and patient populations at risk of opioid-induced respiratory depression.additionally, the nhlbi is interested in supporting the development of technologies and strategies to reduce barriers to pain management of hlbs conditions in underserved and health disparity populations, culturally-sensitive pain assessment tools, evidence-based strategies to improve the implementation and adaption of pain management regimens in health disparity populations. finally, the nhlbi is interested in the development of tools for multi-level interventions to eliminate treatment disparities among hlbs patients dealing with chronic pain.national institute of neurological disorders and stroke (ninds)the mission of ninds is to seek fundamental knowledge about the brain and nervous system and to use that knowledge to reduce the burden of neurological disease. the national institute of neurological disorders and stroke (ninds) is interested in receiving applications directed at improving pain treatment, including the development of new medications with little or no addiction liability, devices, and objective pain measurement. in addition, ninds is interested in new screening tools and models focused specifically on pain and development of pain therapies.national institute of arthritis and musculoskeletal and skin diseases (niams)niams supports research to develop therapies and technologies directed at enhanced pain management within the niams mission.national center for complementary and integrative health (nccih)the national center for complementary and integrative health (nccih) will support research on development and optimization of technologies relevant to complementary and integrative health approaches and of nonpharmacological therapies for the management of acute or chronic pain conditions. examples of research of interest relevant to this foa include, but are not restricted to,national institute on minority health and health disparities (nimhd)areas of interest: the mission of nimhd is to lead, conduct and support scientific research to improve minority health and reduce health disparities. in the context of this foa, nimhd is interested in applications that focus on (but not limited to) the following areas:national institute of biomedical imaging and bioengineering (nibib)the mission of the national institute of biomedical imaging and bioengineering (nibib) is to improve health by leading the development and accelerating the application of biomedical technologies. the institute is committed to integrating engineering with the physical and life sciences to advance basic research and medical care. one way that this is achieved is through the support of research and development of new biomedical imaging and bioengineering tools and technologies to improve the prevention, detection, treatment, and monitoring of disease. nibib scientific program areas can be found at https://www.nibib.nih.gov/research-funding. nibib supports research from early stage technology development through first in human demonstrations and early feasibility clinical studies.national institute of general medical sciences (nigms)nigms accepts applications directed at improving the treatment and management of pain in the peri-operative period, including the development of non-addictive drugs, devices and objectives measures of pain. nigms accepts applications on the development of strategies, methods, or new technologies to improve the delivery, monitoring, safety and efficacy of anesthesia. nigms also accepts applications relevant to pain management of burn injury.national institute of mental health (nimh)the mission of nimh is to transform the understanding and treatment of mental illnesses through basic and clinical research, paving the way for prevention, recovery, and cure. for this foa, the nimh is interested in supporting the development of digital health technologies associated with pain and serious mental illness (smi) or suicide, with the goal to reduce premature smi mortality and to reduce suicide associated with pain and suffering. examples of technology priorities within those specific goals include: automated, real time assessments of behavior in naturalistic environments, intervention refinement and delivery, and service delivery.office of research infrastructure programs (orip)the office of research infrastructure programs (orip) will support applications proposing relevant technologies to advance the determination, measurement, and/or amelioration/treatment of pain, using appropriate non-clinical models.national institute of dental and craniofacial research (nidcr)the national institute of dental and craniofacial research (nidcr) is interested in applications directed at improving diagnosis, management, and treatment of painful disorders of the orofacial region including temporomandibular joint disorders, trigeminal neuropathies, burning mouth syndrome, oral cancer pain, dental pain, and other conditions. topics of interest include, but are not limited to, development of: new non-addictive medications, devices, technologies for objective pain measurement, screening tools and models focused on pain and development of pain therapies. development of tools and technologies to better understand chronic orofacial pain conditions are also of interest to nidcr. investigators are encouraged to contact nidcr program staff to discuss potential research projects prior to application submission to determine alignment of the planned studies with priorities of the institute mission and strategic plan.national center for advancing translational sciences (ncats)ncats intends to fund applications that meet its mission. for a description of the ncats sbir/sttr research priorities see https://ncats.nih.gov/smallbusiness/priorities.national library of medicine (nlm)nlm intends to fund applications that meet its mission. for a description of the nlm sbir/sttr research interest see https://www.nlm.nih.gov/ep/grantsbir.html.national institute of nursing research (ninr)ninr supports research programs that are developing and refining technologies to improve symptom risk assessment and identify potential interventions, promote health outcomes in diverse and underserved populations, and/or foster health, prevent illness, and improve health-related quality of life across the lifespan.eunice kennedy shriver national institute of child health and human development (nichd)nichd is particularly interested in applications relevant to (a) persistent pain of women with endometriosis, chronic pelvic pain, vulvodynia/vestibulodynia, dysmenorrhea, and other gynecologic pain syndromes, (b) pain (acute and chronic) after minor and major surgical procedures, and (c) pain conditions (acute and chronic) in children, women of reproductive age, pregnant and lactating individuals, people with intellectual and physical disabilities, and health disparity populations (i.e. racial/ethnic groups, sexual and gender minorities, underserved rural and socioeconomically disadvantaged populations, people with limited english proficiency).see section viii. other information for award authorities and regulations.grant: a support mechanism providing money, property, or both to an eligible entity to carry out an approved project or activity.nih intends to commit $1m annually to fund 1-4 awards, depending on the mix of the different application types (e.g. phase i or phase ii).total funding support (direct costs, indirect costs, fee) normally may not exceed $275,766 for phase i awards and $1,838,436 for phase ii awards. for specific topics, nih may exceed these total award amounts. the current list of approved topics can be found at https://seed.nih.gov/sites/default/files/hhs_topics_for_budget_waivers.pdf.each participating component may also set their own budget limit (higher or lower than the above) in the “budget guidance" of their respective topics section in the current phs 2022-2 sbir/sttr program descriptions and research topics for the nih, cdc and fda. applicants are strongly encouraged to contact program officials prior to submitting any application in excess of the total award amounts listed above and early in the application planning process. in all cases, applicants should propose a budget that is reasonable and appropriate for completion of the research project.durations up to 2 years for phase i and 2-3 years for phase ii may be requested.nih grants policies as described in the nih grants policy statement will apply to the applications submitted and awards made from this foa.1. eligible applicantsonly united states small business concerns (sbcs) are eligible to submit applications for this opportunity. a small business concern is one that, at the time of award of phase i and phase ii, meets all of the following criteria:if the concern is more than 50% owned by multiple venture capital operating companies, hedge funds, private equity firms, or any combination of these falls under 3 (ii) or 3 (iii) above, see section iv. application and submission information for additional instructions regarding required application certification.if an employee stock ownership plan owns all or part of the concern, each stock trustee and plan member is considered an owner.if a trust owns all or part of the concern, each trustee and trust beneficiary is considered an owner.definitions:sbcs must also meet the other regulatory requirements found in 13 c.f.r. part 121. business concerns, other than investment companies licensed, or state development companies qualifying under the small business investment act of 1958, 15 u.s.c. 661, et seq., are affiliates of one another when either directly or indirectly, (a) one concern controls or has the power to control the other; or (b) a third-party/parties controls or has the power to control both. business concerns include, but are not limited to, any individual (sole proprietorship) partnership, corporation, joint venture, association, or cooperative. the sf424 (r&r) sbir/sttr application guide should be referenced for detailed eligibility information.small business concerns that are more than 50% owned by multiple venture capital operating companies, hedge funds, private equity firms, or any combination of these are not eligible to apply to the nih sttr program.performance benchmark requirementsphase i to phase ii transition rate benchmark: in accordance with guidance from the sba, the hhs sbir/sttr program is implementing the phase i to phase ii transition rate benchmark required by the sbir/sttr reauthorization act of 2011 and the sbir and sttr extension act of 2022. the benchmark establishes a minimum number of phase ii awards the company must have received relative to a given number of phase i awards received during the 5-fiscal year time period. the transition rate is calculated as the total number of sbir and sttr phase ii awards a company received during the past 5 fiscal years divided by the total number of sbir and sttr phase i awards it received during the past 5 fiscal years excluding the most recently-completed year. the transition rate requirement, agreed upon and established by all 11 sbir agencies, was published for public comment in a federal register notice on october 16, 2012 (77 fr 63410) and amended on may 23, 2013 (78 fr 30951).on june 1 of each year, sba will identify the companies that fail to meet minimum performance requirements.sba calculates individual company phase i to phase ii transition rates using sbir and sttr award information across all federal agencies. sba will notify companies and the relevant officials at the participating agencies. more information on the phase i to phase ii transition rate requirement is available at sbir.gov.phase ii to commercialization benchmark: in accordance with guidance from the sba, the hhs sbir/sttr programs are implementing the phase ii to commercialization rate benchmark for phase i applicants, as required by the sbir/sttr reauthorization act of 2011 and the sbir and sttr extension act of 2022. the commercialization rate benchmark was published in a federal register notice on august 8, 2013 (78 fr 48537), with a reopening of the comment period published on september 26, 2013 (78 fr 59410).non-domestic (non-u.s.) entities (foreign institutions) are not eligible to apply.non-domestic (non-u.s.) components of u.s. organizations are not eligible to apply.foreign components, as defined in the nih grants policy statement, may be allowed.applicant organizationsapplicant organizations must complete and maintain the following registrations as described in the sf 424 (r&r) application guide to be eligible to apply for or receive an award. all registrations must be completed prior to the application being submitted. registration can take 6 weeks or more, so applicants should begin the registration process as soon as possible. the nih policy on late submission of grant applications states that failure to complete registrations in advance of a due date is not a valid reason for a late submission.program directors/principal investigators (pd(s)/pi(s))all pd(s)/pi(s) must have an era commons account. pd(s)/pi(s) should work with their organizational officials to either create a new account or to affiliate their existing account with the applicant organization in era commons. if the pd/pi is also the organizational signing official, they must have two distinct era commons accounts, one for each role. obtaining an era commons account can take up to 2 weeks.any individual(s) with the skills, knowledge, and resources necessary to carry out the proposed research as the program director(s)/principal investigator(s) (pd(s)/pi(s)) is invited to work with his/her organization to develop an application for support. individuals from diverse backgrounds, including underrepresented racial and ethnic groups, individuals with disabilities, and women are always encouraged to apply for nih support.for the sttr program, the pd(s)/pi(s) may be employed with the sbc or the single, “partnering” non-profit research institution as long as s/he has a formal appointment with or commitment to the applicant sbc, which is characterized by an official relationship between the sbc and that individual. each pd/pi must commit a minimum of 10% effort to the project and the pd/pi must have a formal appointment with or commitment to the applicant small business concern, which is characterized by an official relationship between the small business concern and that individual. such a relationship does not necessarily involve a salary or other form of remuneration.the sf424 (r&r) sbir/sttr application guide should be referenced for specific details on eligibility requirements. for institutions/organizations proposing multiple pds/pis, see multiple principal investigators section of the sf424 (r&r) sbir/sttr application guide.2. cost sharingthis foa does not require cost sharing as defined in the nih grants policy statement.3. additional information on eligibilitynumber of applicationsapplicant organizations may submit more than one application, provided that each application is scientifically distinct.nih will not accept similar grant applications with essentially the same research focus from the same applicant organization. this includes derivative or multiple applications that propose to develop a single product, process, or service that, with non-substantive modifications, can be applied to a variety of purposes. applicants may not simultaneously submit identical/essentially identical applications under both this funding opportunity and any other hhs funding opportunity, including the sbir and sttr parent announcements.the nih will not accept duplicate or highly overlapping applications under review at the same time, per 2.3.7.4 submission of resubmission application. this means that the nih will not accept:a phase i awardee may submit a phase ii application either before or after expiration of the phase i budget period, unless the awardee elects to submit a phase i and phase ii application concurrently under the fast-track procedure. to maintain eligibility to seek phase ii or iib support, a phase i awardee should submit a phase ii application, and a phase ii awardee should submit a phase iib application, within the first six due dates following the expiration of the phase i or ii budget period, respectively.in phase i and phase ii, at least 40% of the research or analytical effort must be performed by the small business concern and at least 30% of the research or analytical effort must be performed by the single, “partnering” research institution. the basis for determining the percentage of work to be performed by each of the cooperative parties will be the total of direct and f&a/indirect costs attributable to each party, unless otherwise described and justified in “consortium/contractual arrangements” of the phs 398 research plan component of the sf424 (r&r) application forms.a small business concern may subcontract a portion of its sbir or sttr award to a federal laboratory within the limits above. a federal laboratory, as defined in 15 u.s.c. § 3703, means any laboratory, any federally funded research and development center, or any center established under 15 u.s.c. §§ 3705 & 3707 that is owned, leased, or otherwise used by a federal agency and funded by the federal government, whether operated by the government or by a contractor.the basis for determining the percentage of work to be performed by each of the cooperative parties in phase i or phase ii will be the total of the requested costs attributable to each party, unless otherwise described and justified in “consortium/contractual arrangements” of the phs 398 research plan component of sf424 (r&r) application forms.additional details are contained in the sf424 (r&r) sbir/sttr application guide.1. requesting an application packagethe application forms package specific to this opportunity must be accessed through assist, grants.gov workspace or an institutional system-to-system solution. links to apply using assist or grants.gov workspace are available in part 1 of this foa. see your administrative office for instructions if you plan to use an institutional system-to-system solution.2. content and form of application submissionit is critical that applicants follow the sbir/sttr (b) instructions in the sf424 (r&r) sbir/sttr application guide, except where instructed in this funding opportunity announcement to do otherwise. conformance to the requirements in the application guide is required and strictly enforced. applications that are out of compliance with these instructions may be delayed or not accepted for review.letter of intentalthough a letter of intent is not required, is not binding, and does not enter into the review of a subsequent application, the information that it contains allows ic staff to estimate the potential review workload and plan the review.by the date listed in part 1. overview information, prospective applicants are asked to submit a letter of intent that includes the following information:the letter of intent should be sent to:emily caporello, ph.d. national institute of neurological disorders and stroke (ninds) telephone: 301-496-1779 email: emily.caporello@nih.govall page limitations described in the sf424 (r&r) sbir/sttr application guide and the table of page limits must be followed.note: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023, the data management and sharing (dms) plan will be attached in the other plan(s) attachment in forms-h subsequent application forms packages. for due dates on or before january 24, 2023, the data sharing plan and genomic data sharing plan gds) will continue to be attached in the resource sharing plan attachment in forms-g application forms packages.the following section supplements the instructions found in the sf424 (r&r) sbir/sttr application guide and should be used for preparing an application to this foa.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) sbir/sttr application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) sbir/sttr application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) sbir/sttr application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) sbir/sttr application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) sbir/sttr application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) sbir/sttr application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) sbir/sttr application guide must be followed.other plan(s):note: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023, the data management and sharing plan will be attached in the other plan(s) attachment in forms-h and subsequent application forms packages. for due dates on or before january 24, 2023, the data sharing plan and genomic data sharing plan gds) will continue to be attached in the resource sharing plan attachment in forms-g application forms packages.all applicants planning research (funded or conducted in whole or in part by nih) that results in the generation of scientific data are required to comply with the instructions for the data management and sharing plan. all small business innovation research (sbir) and small business technology transfer (sttr) applicants are required to address a data management and sharing plan, regardless of the amount of direct costs requested for any one year. however, sbir and sttr recipients may retain the rights to data generated during the performance of an sbir or sttr award for up to 20 years after the award date, per the small business innovation research (sbir) and small business technology transfer (sttr) program policy directive. an acceptable data management and sharing plan can reference and incorporate these data rights. further information about sbir and sttr data rights are enumerated in the nih gps.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) sbir/sttr application guide must be followed.resource sharing plan: individuals are required to comply with the instructions for the resource sharing plans as provided in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, with the following modification:through the nih heal initiative public access and data sharing policy (the policy), nih seeks to create an infrastructure that addresses the need for researchers, clinicians, and patients to collaborate on sharing their collective data and knowledge about opioid misuse and pain to provide scientific solutions to the opioid crisis. under the policy, applicants for extramural research funding (grants, cooperative agreements, contracts, and other transactions; "applicants") for nih heal initiative research projects are required to submit a public access and data sharing plan that (1) describes their proposed process for making resulting publications and, to the extent possible, the underyling primary data immediately and broadly available to the public or (2), if applicable, provides a justification to nih if such sharing is not possible. underlying primary data should be made as widely and freely available as possible while safeguarding the privacy of participants and protecting confidential and proprietary data.nih understands that the content of a public access and data sharing plan will vary depending on certain factors, including, for example, the size and complexity of the data set. however, the public access and data sharing plan should, at a minimum, address the following general elements:additional information and details surrounding the heal initiative public access and data sharing policy can be found at https://heal.nih.gov/data/public-access-data.appendix:note that phase i sbir/sttr appendix materials are not permitted. only limited items are allowed in the appendix of other small business applications. the instructions for the appendix of the research plan are described in the sf424 (r&r) application guide; any instructions provided here are in addition to the sf424 (r&r) application guide instructions.sbir/sttr informationall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) sbir/sttr application guide must be followed, with the following additional instructions for phase ii:commercialization plan: all applicants are expected to describe a realistic plan (extending beyond sttr phase ii), which outlines how and when full commercialization can be accomplished. the full commercialization of the product/technology should be carried out with non-sbir/sttr funds.the following subsections with the headings should be included within the commercialization plan, in addition to the requirements listed in the sf424 application guide:sbir/sttr commercialization historyapplicants should provide an sbir/sttr commercialization history that addresses the questions listed below. the following questions should be addressed for all sbir/sttr awards received from any federal agency:when involving human subjects research, clinical research, and/or nih-defined clinical trials follow all instructions for the phs human subjects and clinical trials information form in the sf424 (r&r) application guide, with the following additional instructions:if you answered “yes” to the question “are human subjects involved?” on the r&r other project information form, you must include at least one human subjects study record using the study record: phs human subjects and clinical trials information form or delayed onset study record.study record: phs human subjects and clinical trials informationall instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.delayed onset studynote: delayed onset does not apply to a study that can be described but will not start immediately (i.e., delayed start). all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) application guide must be followed.all instructions in the sf424 (r&r) sbir/sttr application guide must be followed.3. unique entity identifier and system for award management (sam)see part 1. section iii.1 for information regarding the requirement for obtaining a unique entity identifier and for completing and maintaining active registrations in system for award management (sam), era commons, and grants.gov.4. submission dates and timespart i. overview information contains information about key dates and time. applicants are encouraged to submit applications before the due date to ensure they have time to make any application corrections that might be necessary for successful submission. when a submission date falls on a weekend or federal holiday, the application deadline is automatically extended to the next business day.organizations must submit applications to grants.gov (the online portal to find and apply for grants across all federal agencies). applicants must then complete the submission process by tracking the status of the application in the era commons, nih’s electronic system for grants administration. nih and grants.gov systems check the application against many of the application instructions upon submission. errors must be corrected and a changed/corrected application must be submitted to grants.gov on or before the application due date and time. if a changed/corrected application is submitted after the deadline, the application will be considered late. applications that miss the due date and time are subjected to the nih policy on late application submission.applicants are responsible for viewing their application before the due date in the era commons to ensure accurate and successful submission.information on the submission process and a definition of on-time submission are provided in the sf424 (r&r) sbir/sttr application guide.5. intergovernmental review (e.o. 12372)this initiative is not subject to intergovernmental review.6. funding restrictionsall nih awards are subject to the terms and conditions, cost principles, and other considerations described in the nih grants policy statement.pre-award costs are allowable only as described in the nih grants policy statement.7. other submission requirements and informationapplications must be submitted electronically following the instructions described in the sf424 (r&r) sbir/sttr application guide. paper applications will not be accepted.applicants must complete all required registrations before the application due date. section iii. eligibility information contains information about registration.for assistance with your electronic application or for more information on the electronic submission process, visit how to apply – application guide. if you encounter a system issue beyond your control that threatens your ability to complete the submission process on-time, you must follow the dealing with system issues guidance. for assistance with application submission, contact the application submission contacts in section vii.important reminders:all pd(s)/pi(s) must include their era commons id in the credential field of the senior/key person profile form. failure to register in the commons and to include a valid pd/pi commons id in the credential field will prevent the successful submission of an electronic application to nih.the applicant organization must ensure that the unique entity identifier provided on the application is the same identifier used in the organization’s profile in the era commons and for the system for award management. additional information may be found in the sf424 (r&r) application guide.see more tips for avoiding common errors.upon receipt, applications will be evaluated for completeness and compliance with application instructions by the center for scientific review and responsiveness by components of participating organizations, nih. applications that are incomplete, non-compliant and/or nonresponsive will not be reviewed.1. criterianote: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023, the data sharing plan and genomic data sharing plan (gds) as part of the resource sharing plan will not be evaluated at time of review.only the review criteria described below will be considered in the review process. applications submitted to the nih in support of the nih mission are evaluated for scientific and technical merit through the nih peer review system.reviewers will provide an overall impact score to reflect their assessment of the likelihood for the project to exert a sustained, powerful influence on the research field(s) involved, in consideration of the following review criteria and additional review criteria (as applicable for the project proposed).reviewers will consider each of the review criteria below in the determination of scientific merit, and give a separate score for each. an application does not need to be strong in all categories to be judged likely to have major scientific impact. for example, a project that by its nature is not innovative may be essential to advance a field.significancedoes the project address an important problem or a critical barrier to progress in the field?is the prior research that serves as the key support for the proposed project rigorous? if the aims of the project are achieved, how will scientific knowledge, technical capability, and/or clinical practice be improved? how will successful completion of the aims change the concepts, methods, technologies, treatments, services, or preventative interventions that drive this field? does the proposed project have commercial potential to lead to a marketable product, process or service? (in the case of phase ii, fast-track, and phase ii competing renewals, does the commercialization plan demonstrate a high probability of commercialization?)investigator(s)are the pd(s)/pi(s), collaborators, and other researchers well suited to the project? if early stage investigators or those in the early stages of independent careers, do they have appropriate experience and training? if established, have they demonstrated an ongoing record of accomplishments that have advanced their field(s)? if the project is collaborative or multi-pd/pi, do the investigators have complementary and integrated expertise; are their leadership approach, governance and organizational structure appropriate for the project?innovationdoes the application challenge and seek to shift current research or clinical practice paradigms by utilizing novel theoretical concepts, approaches or methodologies, instrumentation, or interventions? are the concepts, approaches or methodologies, instrumentation, or interventions novel to one field of research or novel in a broad sense? is a refinement, improvement, or new application of theoretical concepts, approaches or methodologies, instrumentation, or interventions proposed?specific to this foa:how significant an advantage does the proposed technology/product offer over all existing approaches as well as those in development for the same indication?approachare the overall strategy, methodology, and analyses well-reasoned and appropriate to accomplish the specific aims of the project? have the investigators included plans to address weaknesses in the rigor of prior research that serves as the key support for the proposed project? have the investigators presented strategies to ensure a robust and unbiased approach, as appropriate for the work proposed? are potential problems, alternative strategies, and benchmarks for success presented? if the project is in the early stages of development, will the strategy establish feasibility and will particularly risky aspects be managed? for a phase i application, are there clear, appropriate, measurable goals (milestones) that should be achieved prior to initiating phase ii? have the investigators presented adequate plans to address relevant biological variables, such as sex, for studies in vertebrate animals or human subjects?specific to this foa:if the proposed project involves advancing the product or service through the federal regulatory approval process, how timely and reasonable is the proposed plan to meet these requirements?if the project involves human subjects and/or nih-defined clinical research, are the plans to address1) the protection of human subjects from research risks, and2) inclusion (or exclusion) of individuals on the basis of sex/gender, race, and ethnicity, as well as the inclusion or exclusion of individuals of all ages (including children and older adults), justified in terms of the scientific goals and research strategy proposed?environmentwill the scientific environment in which the work will be done contribute to the probability of success? are the institutional support, equipment and other physical resources available to the investigators adequate for the project proposed? will the project benefit from unique features of the scientific environment, subject populations, or collaborative arrangement?as applicable for the project proposed, reviewers will evaluate the following additional items while determining scientific and technical merit, and in providing an overall impact score, but will not give separate scores for these items.market, customer, and competitionhow compelling is the value proposition, and to what extent does the application demonstrate a substantial market-pull for the technology under development? how well has the applicant described the market niche(s) for the product/ technology, and how urgent is the unmet need(s) being addressed? to what extent has the applicant identified realistic, market-based milestones that can be achieved over the next five years?how well has the applicant demonstrated an understanding of the competitive environment in which they plan to sell their product? to what extent has the applicant identified their customers and demonstrated a clear understanding of their needs? how well has the company addressed potential hurdles that may delay or prevent acceptance of their product? how reasonable are the applicant's plans for generating a revenue stream, and how realistic are the revenue projections?companyhow well can the applicant sbc sustain itself and grow as a business? to what extent will the applicant's business alliances and/or corporate partnerships help in facilitating commercialization? for example, will third-party investors play an active role in facilitating the commercialization of the product/technology, and if so to what extent?to what extent do the prior experience and qualifications of the project team members lend confidence that the team will be successful in commercializing the proposed product/technology? for example, how successful have the pd(s)/pi(s) been in commercializing other sbir/sttr supported technologies and discoveries in the past?if the sbc has received previous sbir/sttr funding from any federal agency, then how successful is the company's track record in commercializing prior sbir/sttr projects?phase ii applicationsfor phase ii applications, how well did the applicant demonstrate progress toward meeting the phase i (or phase i-like) objectives, demonstrating feasibility, and providing a solid foundation for the proposed phase ii activity?.protections for human subjectsfor research that involves human subjects but does not involve one of the categories of research that are exempt under 45 cfr part 46, the committee will evaluate the justification for involvement of human subjects and the proposed protections from research risk relating to their participation according to the following five review criteria: 1) risk to subjects, 2) adequacy of protection against risks, 3) potential benefits to the subjects and others, 4) importance of the knowledge to be gained, and 5) data and safety monitoring for clinical trials.for research that involves human subjects and meets the criteria for one or more of the categories of research that are exempt under 45 cfr part 46, the committee will evaluate: 1) the justification for the exemption, 2) human subjects involvement and characteristics, and 3) sources of materials. for additional information on review of the human subjects section, please refer to the guidelines for the review of human subjects.inclusion of women, minorities, and individuals across the lifespanwhen the proposed project involves human subjects and/or nih-defined clinical research, the committee will evaluate the proposed plans for the inclusion (or exclusion) of individuals on the basis of sex/gender, race, and ethnicity, as well as the inclusion (or exclusion) of individuals of all ages (including children and older adults) to determine if it is justified in terms of the scientific goals and research strategy proposed. for additional information on review of the inclusion section, please refer to the guidelines for the review of inclusion in clinical research.vertebrate animalsthe committee will evaluate the involvement of live vertebrate animals as part of the scientific assessment according to the following criteria: (1) description of proposed procedures involving animals, including species, strains, ages, sex, and total number to be used; (2) justifications for the use of animals versus alternative models and for the appropriateness of the species proposed; (3) interventions to minimize discomfort, distress, pain and injury; and (4) justification for euthanasia method if not consistent with the avma guidelines for the euthanasia of animals. reviewers will assess the use of chimpanzees as they would any other application proposing the use of vertebrate animals. for additional information on review of the vertebrate animals section, please refer to the worksheet for review of the vertebrate animal section.biohazardsreviewers will assess whether materials or procedures proposed are potentially hazardous to research personnel and/or the environment, and if needed, determine whether adequate protection is proposed.resubmissionsfor resubmissions, the committee will evaluate the application as now presented, taking into consideration the responses to comments from the previous scientific review group and changes made to the project.phase iib competing renewalsnot applicable.revisionsfor revisions, the committee will consider the appropriateness of the proposed expansion of the scope of the project. if the revision application relates to a specific line of investigation presented in the original application that was not recommended for approval by the committee, then the committee will consider whether the responses to comments from the previous scientific review group are adequate and whether substantial changes are clearly evidentnote: effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023, the data sharing plan and genomic data sharing plan (gds) as part of the resource sharing plan will not be evaluated at time of review.as applicable for the project proposed, reviewers will consider each of the following items, but will not give scores for these items, and should not consider them in providing an overall impact score.applications with foreign componentsreviewers will consider whether work to be performed outside of the united states is thoroughly justified, based on a rare and unique circumstance, and necessary to the overall completion of the project.select agent researchreviewers will assess the information provided in this section of the application, including 1) the select agent(s) to be used in the proposed research, 2) the registration status of all entities where select agent(s) will be used, 3) the procedures that will be used to monitor possession use and transfer of select agent(s), and 4) plans for appropriate biosafety, biocontainment, and security of the select agent(s).resource sharing plansreviewers will comment on whether the following resource sharing plans, or the rationale for not sharing the following types of resources, are reasonable: (1) data sharing plan; (2) sharing model organisms; and (3) genomic data sharing plan.authentication of key biological and/or chemical resources:for projects involving key biological and/or chemical resources, reviewers will comment on the brief plans proposed for identifying and ensuring the validity of those resources.budget and period of supportreviewers will consider whether the budget and the requested period of support are fully justified and reasonable in relation to the proposed research.applications will be evaluated for scientific and technical merit by (an) appropriate scientific review group(s), convened by csr, in accordance with nih peer review policy and procedures, using the stated review criteria. assignment to a scientific review group will be shown in the era commons.as part of the scientific peer review, all applications will receive a written critique.applications will be assigned on the basis of established phs referral guidelines to the appropriate nih institute or center. applications will compete for available funds with all other recommended applications submitted in response to this foa. following initial peer review, recommended applications will receive a second level of review by the appropriate national advisory council or board. the following will be considered in making funding decisions:3. anticipated announcement and award datesafter the peer review of the application is completed, the pd/pi will be able to access his or her summary statement (written critique) via the era commons. refer to part 1 for dates for peer review, advisory council review, and earliest start date.information regarding the disposition of applications is available in the nih grants policy statement.1. award noticesif the application is under consideration for funding, nih will request "just-in-time" information from the applicant as described in the nih grants policy statement.a formal notification in the form of a notice of award (noa) will be provided to the applicant organization for successful applications. the noa signed by the grants management officer is the authorizing document and will be sent via email to the recipient's business official.recipients must comply with any funding restrictions described in section iv.5. funding restrictions. selection of an application for award is not an authorization to begin performance. any costs incurred before receipt of the noa are at the recipient's risk. these costs may be reimbursed only to the extent considered allowable pre-award costs.any application awarded in response to this foa will be subject to terms and conditions found on the award conditions and information for nih grants website. this includes any recent legislation and policy applicable to awards that is highlighted on this website.institutional review board or independent ethics committee approval: grantee institutions must ensure that protocols are reviewed by their irb or iec. to help ensure the safety of participants enrolled in nih-funded studies, the awardee must provide nih copies of documents related to all major changes in the status of ongoing protocols.2. administrative and national policy requirementsall nih grant and cooperative agreement awards include the nih grants policy statement as part of the noa. for these terms of award, see the nih grants policy statement part ii: terms and conditions of nih grant awards, subpart a: general and part ii: terms and conditions of nih grant awards, subpart b: terms and conditions for specific types of grants, recipients, and activities, including of note, but not limited to:if a recipient is successful and receives a notice of award, in accepting the award, the recipient agrees that any activities under the award are subject to all provisions currently in effect or implemented during the period of the award, other department regulations and policies in effect at the time of the award, and applicable statutory provisions.should the applicant organization successfully compete for an award, recipients of federal financial assistance (ffa) from hhs must administer their programs in compliance with federal civil rights laws that prohibit discrimination on the basis of race, color, national origin, disability, age and, in some circumstances, religion, conscience, and sex (including gender identity, sexual orientation, and pregnancy). this includes ensuring programs are accessible to persons with limited english proficiency and persons with disabilities. the hhs office for civil rights provides guidance on complying with civil rights laws enforced by hhs. please see https://www.hhs.gov/civil-rights/for-providers/provider-obligations/index.html and https://www.hhs.gov/civil-rights/for-individuals/nondiscrimination/index.htmlhhs recognizes that research projects are often limited in scope for many reasons that are nondiscriminatory, such as the principal investigator’s scientific interest, funding limitations, recruitment requirements, and other considerations. thus, criteria in research protocols that target or exclude certain populations are warranted where nondiscriminatory justifications establish that such criteria are appropriate with respect to the health or safety of the subjects, the scientific study design, or the purpose of the research. for additional guidance regarding how the provisions apply to nih grant programs, please contact the scientific/research contact that is identified in section vii under agency contacts of this foa.please contact the hhs office for civil rights for more information about obligations and prohibitions under federal civil rights laws at https://www.hhs.gov/ocr/about-us/contact-us/index.html or call 1-800-368-1019 or tdd 1-800-537-7697.in accordance with the statutory provisions contained in section 872 of the duncan hunter national defense authorization act of fiscal year 2009 (public law 110-417), nih awards will be subject to the federal awardee performance and integrity information system (fapiis) requirements. fapiis requires federal award making officials to review and consider information about an applicant in the designated integrity and performance system (currently fapiis) prior to making an award. an applicant, at its option, may review information in the designated integrity and performance systems accessible through fapiis and comment on any information about itself that a federal agency previously entered and is currently in fapiis. the federal awarding agency will consider any comments by the applicant, in addition to other information in fapiis, in making a judgement about the applicant’s integrity, business ethics, and record of performance under federal awards when completing the review of risk posed by applicants as described in 45 cfr part 75.205 and 2 cfr part 200.206 “federal awarding agency review of risk posed by applicants.” this provision will apply to all nih grants and cooperative agreements except fellowships.the office of inspector general hotline accepts tips from all sources about potential fraud, waste, abuse and mismanagement in department of health & human services programs. the reporting individual should indicate that the fraud, waste and/or abuse concerns an sbir/sttr grant or contract, if relevant. report fraud.not applicabledata management and sharingnote: the nih policy for data management and sharing is effective for due dates on or after january 25, 2023.consistent with the nih policy for data management and sharing, when data management and sharing is applicable to the award, recipients will be required to adhere to the data management and sharing requirements as outlined in the nih grants policy statement (gps). upon the approval of a data management and sharing plan, it is required for recipients to implement the plan as described. sbir and sttr recipients may retain the rights to data generated during the performance of an sbir or sttr award for up to 20 years after the award date, per the small business innovation research (sbir) and small business technology transfer (sttr) program policy directive. an acceptable data management and sharing plan can reference and incorporate these data rights. further information about sbir and sttr data rights are enumerated in the nih gps.3. reportingnih requires that sbir/sttr recipients submit the following reports within 120 days of the end of the grant budget period unless the recipient is under an extension. when multiple years are involved, recipients will be required to submit the research performance progress report (rppr) annually and financial statements as required in the nih grants policy statement.failure to submit timely final reports may affect future funding to the organization or awards with the same pd/pi. nih foas outline intended research goals and objectives. post award, nih will review and measure performance based on the details and outcomes that are shared within the rppr, as described at 2 cfr 200.301.the federal funding accountability and transparency act of 2006 (transparency act), includes a requirement for recipients of federal grants to report information about first-tier subawards and executive compensation under federal assistance awards issued in fy2011 or later. all recipients of applicable nih grants and cooperative agreements are required to report to the federal subaward reporting system (fsrs) available at www.fsrs.gov on all subawards over the threshold. see the nih grants policy statement for additional information on this reporting requirement.in accordance with the regulatory requirements provided at 45 cfr part 75.113 and 2 cfr part 200.113 and appendix xii to 45 cfr part 75 and 2 cfr part 200, recipients that have currently active federal grants, cooperative agreements, and procurement contracts from all federal awarding agencies with a cumulative total value greater than $10,000,000 for any period of time during the period of performance of a federal award, must report and maintain the currency of information reported in the system for award management (sam) about civil, criminal, and administrative proceedings in connection with the award or performance of a federal award that reached final disposition within the most recent five-year period. the recipient must also make semiannual disclosures regarding such proceedings. proceedings information will be made publicly available in the designated integrity and performance system (currently fapiis). this is a statutory requirement under section 872 of public law 110-417, as amended (41 u.s.c. 2313). as required by section 3010 of public law 111-212, all information posted in the designated integrity and performance system on or after april 15, 2011, except past performance reviews required for federal procurement contracts, will be publicly available. full reporting requirements and procedures are found in appendix xii to 45 cfr part 75 and 2 cfr part 200 – award term and condition for recipient integrity and performance matters.we encourage inquiries concerning this funding opportunity and welcome the opportunity to answer questions from potential applicants.era service desk (questions regarding assist, era commons, application errors and warnings, documenting system problems that threaten submission by the due date, and post-submission issues)finding help online: http://grants.nih.gov/support/ (preferred method of contact) telephone: 301-402-7469 or 866-504-9552 (toll free)general grants information (questions regarding application instructions, application processes, and nih grant resources) email: grantsinfo@nih.gov (preferred method of contact) telephone: 301-945-7573grants.gov customer support (questions regarding grants.gov registration and workspace) contact center telephone: 800-518-4726 email: support@grants.govsba company registry (questions regarding required registration at the sba company registry and for technical questions or issues) website to email: http://sbir.gov/feedback?type=regemily caporello, ph.d. national institute of neurological disorders and stroke (ninds) phone: 301-496-1778 email: emily.caporello@nih.govmargaret grabb, ph.d. national institute of mental health (nimh) telephone: 301-443-3563 email: mgrabb@mail.nih.govstephanie meyers davis, phd national heart, lung, and blood institute (nhlbi) phone: 301-496-8412 e-mail: stephanie.davis3@nih.govmiguel a contreras office of research infrastructure programs (orip) phone: 301.594.9410 e-mail: contre1@mail.nih.govsailaja koduri, ph.d. national institute of general medical sciences (nigms) e-mail: sailaja.koduri@nih.govsteven theodore pittenger national center for advancing translational sciences (ncats) phone: 301-827-5810 e-mail: steven.pittenger@nih.govemrin horgusluoglu, ph.d. national center for complementary & integrative health (nccih) phone: 240-383-5302 email: emrin.horgusluoglu-moloch@nih.govhelena h. ahn, phd eunice kennedy shriver national institute of child health and human development (nichd) telephone: 301-827-3207 email: helena.ahn@nih.govtoyin ajisafe, phd eunice kennedy shriver national institute of child health and human development (nichd) telephone: 301-827-9242 email: toyin.ajisafe@nih.govxibin wang, phd national institute of arthritis and musculoskeletal and skin diseases (niams) phone: 301-451-3884 e-mail: wangx1@mail.nih.govdr. michael-david a.r.r. kerns national institute on aging (nia) phone: 301-402-7713 email: michael-david.kerns@nih.govpatricia weber, drph national cancer institute (nci) telephone: 240-276-5240 email: weberpa@nih.govjenica dawn patterson, ph.d. national institute on alcohol abuse and alcoholism (niaaa) phone: 301-827-6166 e-mail: jenica.patterson@nih.govcenter for scientific review (csr) e-mail: foareviewcontact@csr.nih.govchief grants management officer national institute of neurological disorders and stroke (ninds) telephone: 301-496-9231 email: chiefgrantsmanagementofficer@ninds.nih.govterri jarosik national institute of mental health (nimh) telephone: 301-443-3858 email: tjarosik@mail.nih.govannmarie brasilemejac national heart, lung, and blood institute (nhlbi) phone: (301) 827-8016 e-mail: brasilea@nhlbi.nih.govsabrina r. oasan national heart, lung and blood institute (nhlbi) office of research infrastructure programs (orip) team phone: 301-443-9123 email: sabrina.oasan@nih.govbrian iglesias national institute of general medical sciences (nigms) e-mail: iglesiab@mail.nih.govimoni malaika washington national center for advancing translational sciences (ncats) phone: (301) 435-2939 e-mail: imoni.washington@nih.govdebbie chen national center for complementary and integrative health (nccih) phone: 301-594-3788 email: debbie.chen@nih.govmargaret young eunice kennedy shriver national institute of child health and human development (nichd) telephone: 301-642-4552 email: margaret.young@nih.govvictoria c matthews national institute of arthritis and musculoskeletal and skin diseases (niams) phone: 301-594-5032 e-mail: victoria.matthews@nih.govjessica perez national institute on aging (nia) phone: 301 496-1472 e-mail: perezj@mail.nih.govshane woodward national cancer institute (nci) telephone: 240-276-6303 email: shane.woodward@nih.govjeffrey thurston national institute on alcohol abuse and alcoholism (niaaa) phone: 301-443-9801 e-mail: thurstoj@mail.nih.govrecently issued trans-nih policy notices may affect your application submission. a full list of policy notices published by nih is provided in the nih guide for grants and contracts. all awards are subject to the terms and conditions, cost principles, and other considerations described in the nih grants policy statement.awards are made under the authorization of sections 301 and 405 of the public health service act as amended (42 usc 241 and 284) and under federal regulations 45 cfr part 75 and 2 cfr part 200.the sttr program is mandated by the small business reauthorization act of 1997 (p.l. 105-135), and reauthorizing legislation, p.l. 107-50, p.l. 112-81 (sbir/sttr reauthorization act of 2011), as reauthorized and extended under p.l. 114-328, section 1834, and p.l. 115-232. the basic design of the nih sttr program is in accordance with the small business administration (sba) sttr policy directive.weekly toc for this announcement nih funding opportunities and noticesnote: for help accessing pdf, rtf, ms word, excel, powerpoint, audio or video files, see help downloading files.